News December 2010
News December 2010
This is what I published in December. I confirm my fundamental view - newspapers are
political weapons used to manipulate us, just like television,
wireless, film, magazines and books. For earlier offerings go to
2010
or contact
me at -
Mike Emery
If liberty means
anything at all, it means the right to tell people what they do not
want to hear.
George
Orwell Cherie
Blair Competition Winners
Blair Is A War Criminal On The Run
31 December 2010 is New Year's Eve
On this day in 1999
Vladimir
Putin
became the acting President of Russia and the best ruler of Russia since
Peter the Great
Teenager Shot Dead By Gang In Chilling Echo Of Damilola Case
QUOTE
A teenager was shot dead and two others knifed in an orgy of violence
between rival gangs. Three men have been arrested after the 17-year-old was trapped and
gunned down following a chase through a notorious estate in Peckham,
South-East London. The stairwell he collapsed and died in is just a mile from where Damilola
Taylor was killed by a gang ten years ago. The ten-year-old also died in a
tower block stairwell. The two other teenagers, aged 17 and 18, were knifed in the same clashes,
which saw hooded youths running amok on the troubled Pelican estate......
Witnesses said the dead teenager, who was black, had banged on the door
of an eighth-floor flat, begging in vain to be let in. He was shot as he
retreated to the fifth floor. Residents said three black youths – aged
between 15 and 18 – stood guard outside the block while four others ran in
and killed the 17-year-old with a single shot. [
A one shot kill is as
good as it gets - Ed.
] Camberwell and Peckham MP Harriet Harman visited the estate yesterday and
said: ‘It is vital that those who committed this brutal crime should not get
away with it. UNQUOTE
The Mail admits in the small print that the loser was a black just like the winners were. It was gang fight.
They were all perpetrators. Other papers will cover up the story more or less
totally. That is policy. That is corruption. NB
Damilola Taylor
was also a black killed by blacks
and there was not a word about racism. Of course if Englishmen had been
involved it there would have been - lots of them too. Harman shed her
crocodile tears because it was a black killed. There would have been none for
one of us.
Israeli President Is A Crooked Liar And Rapist
QUOTE
Former President Moshe Katsav's defense
was riddled with lies, according to a court ruling by the judges of the
Tel Aviv District Court  on Thursday, who found Katsav guilty of rape and
sexual abuse. Katsav was
convicted of raping and sexually assaulting
A., a former employee at
the Tourism Ministry. He was also convicted of sexually harassing H. from
the President's Residence, of sexually abusing and harassing L. from the
President's Residence and of obstruction of justice.
According to the court verdict, the
judges found that Katsav used edited tapes, partial transcripts,
unrealistic datebooks, unfounded statements, and prepared testimonies as
part of his court defense. The judges also found that his testimony was "riddled
with lies" and that all along, Katsav  "excelled in manipulation and
withholding information."
UNQUOTE Politicians are liars. Jews are liars. Jews go into politics
because they are liars. To be fair, Katsav is a clever liar.
Israeli President Looking At 16 Years Inside QUOTE
The prosecution is likely to ask merely for a “severe” sentence that would
reflect the rape verdict against former President Moshe Katsav Thursday,
legal experts said.  Attorney General Yehuda Weinstein will decide on the punishment the
prosecution will seek for Katsav, convicted of two counts of rape and
other offenses.
Most observers said the prosecution would not ask for a specific number
of years; the maximum punishment for rape is 16 years. The attorney general will also consider circumstances that could call
for leniency, including the period of time since the offenses and the fact
that Katsav has already paid a high personal price........
Apart from the criminal process, Katsav is expected to face a number of
civil lawsuits. Daniel Sror, who represents A. from the Tourism Ministry,
the complainant whom Katsav raped on two separate occasions, told
reporters yesterday his client was considering filing a damages suit........
Attorney Yair Golan, who in the past represented another former
minister accused of sex crimes, Yitzhak Mordechai, said the court would
probably take into account Katsav’s decades of public service. But he
noted that the higher Katsav’s office when the crimes were committed, the
greater the gap between him and his victims.
UNQUOTE Jew get power.
Jew abuses power. Jew comes unstuck. That is the theme of
Fatal
Embrace by Benjamin Ginsburg
explaining how Jews worm their way into power
then rob the peasants.
Effective Airport Security? - No - An Extended Advertisement
QUOTE
Airport security checks are
not only intrusive, demeaning and a mind-numbing drain on our
precious time. They don't actually work. But as David Rose reports
from Israel, a new generation of scanning systems are so good they
can pick out a terrorist by asking a terribly simple question: Are
you or are you not a terrorist?
Israel's main international airport Ben Gurion's 'find the
terrorist, not the bomb' approach has required human beings to
operate it. But now, using machines, it can be automated - and
in the process, greatly speeded up  The security checks at
Ben Gurion, Israel's main international airport near Tel Aviv, are
intense. But they are surprisingly discreet. There are no groups
of armed police patrolling through the concourses (though if
necessary, of course, they will appear very rapidly)........ The Israelis call this
method 'behaviour pattern analysis', and it starts beyond the
airport: the passenger who pays cash for a one-way ticket at an
airline office will be more likely to attract attention than
someone who uses a credit card to purchase a return over the
internet. UNQUOTE David Rose writes from Israel. David Rose
makes like it is news. He is just the first line in the marketing operation. He
is almost certainly a Jew with another pay check in shekels. The price of the
product is megabucks, as many as the traffic will bear.
PS He wrote
Excuses
For The Jews Committing The Gaza Massacre
30 December 2010
Israeli President Convicted Of Double Rape
QUOTE JERUSALEM (JTA) -- Former Israeli president Moshe
Katsav has been found guilty of rape and sexual assault, more than four years
after he was first accused........... Katsav, 65, was convicted of raping and
sexually assaulting A., a former employee of the Tourism Ministry. He was also
convicted of sexually harassing H. and of sexually abusing and harassing L.,
both employees of the President's Residence, and of obstruction of justice. The
incidents occurred when Katsav was serving as Israel's president and tourism
minister.............
The trial lasted for one year. Two years ago,
Katsav declined what was seen as a lenient plea bargain — one that dropped the
rape charges and likely would have left him with a suspended sentence — saying
that he wanted to clear his name in court. Most of the trial was held behind
closed doors to protect the accusers........ "This is a sad day for the State of
Israel and its residents," Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a
statement after the verdict. He added: "Today, the court conveyed two clear-cut
messages — that all are equal before the law and that every woman has exclusive
rights to her body." UNQUOTE The ex-president is sorted. The appeal will
keep him outside for ages. Then he will take it to the supreme court. Then it
will be the ill health routine. That is what
Sharon , Jew, mass murderer and thief did when
he was prime minister. Notice that
Netanyahu
is making noises about justice
for all. He does not mention that the current
Attorney General
kept him out prison.
PS This suggests that there is more justice in Israel when we have 600 MPs
walking the streets rather than inside.
22 Statistics Prove That America's Middle Class Is Being Wiped Out Of Existence
QUOTE
The 22 statistics that you are
about to read prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that the middle class
is being systematically wiped out of existence in America.
The rich are getting richer
and the poor are getting poorer at a staggering rate.  Once upon a
time, the United States had the largest and most prosperous middle
class in the history of the world, but now that is changing at a
blinding pace.
So why are we witnessing such
fundamental changes?  Well, the globalism and "free trade" that our
politicians and business leaders insisted would be so good for us have
had some rather nasty side effects.  It turns out that they didn't
tell us that the "global economy" would mean that middle class
American workers would eventually have to directly compete for jobs
with people on the other side of the world where there is no minimum
wage and very few regulations........
The reality is that no matter how smart, how strong, how educated or how hard
working American workers are, they just cannot compete with people who are
desperate to put in 10 to 12 hour days at less than a dollar an hour on the
other side of the world. UNQUOTE Export jobs, import poverty. Simple
isn't it? Actually it is worse they import cheap labour to do the jobs that
can't be imported. Aforesaid allegedly cheap labour brings crime, disease and
disruption. America is screwed. What is the next move for Americans? Try the
Northwest or
read
Civil War II .
Jew Gets 5.5 More Years For Stealing Billions
QUOTE
Oil billionaire and Kremlin critic Mikhail Khodorkovsky was
sentenced Thursday to 13.5 years in prison for stealing oil and laundering
the proceeds, Interfax reported.  Minutes before judge Viktor Danilkin was to read out the sentence, he
said Khodorkovsky could only be reformed via "isolation from society"
after being found guilty of multi-billion dollar theft and money
laundering.
He said that there was no basis for a suspended sentence
for Khodorkovsky, whose second trial was seen as a test for the rule of
law in Russia and has drawn sharp criticism from the United States and
European nations. UNQUOTE It is nice to see that justice can be served in
Russia. Notice that the phrase about testing the rule of law was used by his
public relations people in the West. Jews stick together regardless. It is one
reason why they give money to charity; bribing poorer sons of Israel.
Thieving Jew Convicted
QUOTE
A court in Moscow today found the oil tycoon,
Mikhail Khodorkovsky , guilty of theft and money laundering in a
politically tinged trial that is seen as a weathervane for
Russia 's future course. Viktor Danilkin, the trial judge, told the packed court
that Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54,
"carried out the embezzlement of property entrusted to the defendants".......... The two men have been in jail since they were arrested
on fraud charges in 2003. A court sentenced them to eight years in prison
two years later, but a new trial on fresh charges of embezzling $25bn
(£16bn) began last year. UNQUOTE
The Guardian
does not bother to tell us that
Khodorkovsky
is one of the
Oligarchs
who stole 85% of Russia's assets when the
USSR fell. It is alleged that one oligarch was not a Jew but it certainly is not
Khodorkovsky. Having robbed Russia blind Khodorkovsky decided to go political.
Trying it on with
Vladimir Putin
was not a good idea. He was not a
KGB
colonel for
nothing. Vlad gets a bad press in the West but then it is controlled by Jews.
Russians say he is their best ruler since
Peter the Great
PS Stealing $25 billion qualifies as really big time thieving.
Monsanto Used American Government To Market Genetically Modified Food QUOTE
Secret United States diplomatic cables released by WikiLeaks
detail efforts to promote genetically modified (GM) crops and biotechnology
across the globe, including the Vatican, where US diplomats pushed the Roman
Catholic Church to support biotech food in developing nations........
US diplomats pledged to continue pushing GM foods as a "moral
imperative" to feed growing populations in order to counter opposition to the
biotech food industry among Catholic activists and clergy.......
Other cables reveal plans to counter anti-GM initiatives across
Europe, and in 2008, US diplomats declared the Monsanto MON-810 corn crop in the
biotech stronghold of Spain as "under threat" from a campaign to ban GM crops in
Europe. Spain was the first European country to approve the MON-810 corn
variety, and by 2009, Spanish farmers were responsible for 75 percent of the
MON-810 crop in Europe, according to the leaked cable. UNQUOTE
Senators can be bought. Congressmen can be bought. That is how bad law gets
made. That is how the rich get richer and the poor get poorer.
Dell's Fraud Settlement Explodes PC Market Myths
QUOTE
Even us jaded hacks, who think we've seen everything in the business, can find
our chins hitting the trackpad. So it is with the Dell legal settlement last
week. It may have a familiar ring to it, as it concerns a kind of business
arrangement almost 20 years old - but don't let that fool you. It's the scale of
the amounts involved that is truly jaw-dropping....... On Thursday, Dell agreed to pay a settlement
for fraudulent accounting from 2001 to 2006. The company admitted no
wrongdoing, as is the custom in such settlements............ Intel's rebates
amounted to 38 per cent of Dell's operating profit in the fiscal year 2006, and
rose to 76 per cent (or $720m) in one quarter alone, Q1 2007. UNQUOTE
It was obvious that the Intel CPU, the heart of a computer was grossly over
priced. This just tells us who was robbing us and of course who is still getting
away with it.
PS Dell is run by
Michael
Dell , a Jew.
PPS Intel is run by
Andy Grove , a Jew.
PPPS When it comes to major fraud it is normally going to be a Jew such as
Bernie Madoff
[ $50 billion ],
Andy Fastow
[ remember
Enron
$11 billion ],
Bernard
Cornfeld
[
Investors Overseas Services
] and another 87 of them in
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Jewish_American_mobsters
- that is
just for America.
Islamics Murder 38 Christians In Nigeria QUOTE
MAIDUGURI, Nigeria -- Dozens of armed men attacked the church,
dragging the pastor out of his home and shooting him to death. Two young men
from the choir rehearsing for a late-night carol service also were slain.
The group of about 30 attackers armed with guns and knives even killed two
people passing by Victory Baptist Church. The assailants only left after
setting the church and pastor's house ablaze........
At least 38 people died in Christmas Eve attacks across Nigeria, including the
six killed at churches in the country's north by suspected members of a
radical Muslim sect. In central Nigeria, 32 died in a series of bomb blasts in
the worst violence to hit the region in months........
The violence, though fractured across religious lines, often has more to do
with local politics, economics and rights to grazing lands. The government of
Plateau state, where Jos is the capital, is controlled by Christian
politicians who have blocked Muslims from being legally recognized as
citizens. UNQUOTE The BBC talks about political parties. This article
mentions religion. It is basically tribal. Grazing rights are a survival issue.
PS
Her Majesty's Government
imports
trouble making freeloaders like these. Ditto for
Her Majesty's Allegedly Loyal Opposition
Israel Finds Off Shore Gas Field Worth $95 Billion QUOTE
The largest
reserve of natural gas, over 16 trillion cubic feet, has been discovered off
the coast of Israel, and is estimated to be worth more than $95 billion, U.S.
company Noble Energy Inc. announced on Wednesday. Noble Energy owns 39.66% of
the prospective discovery, alongside Israeli partners Delek Group Ltd. units
Avner Oil and Gas LP and Delek Drilling LP (22.67% each), and Ratio Oil
Exploration (1992) LP with 15%.
The reserve,
Leviathon, is the largest amount of natural gas discovered in the world in the
last decade and is located in approximately 5,400 feet (1,645 meters) of
water, about 130 kilometers offshore of Haifa and 29 miles (47 kilometers)
southwest of the Tamar discovery. UNQUOTE They did not announce this
until they had signed an agreement with Cyprus regarding borders. Gaza's off
shore gas fields will, quite naturally get stolen by those wonderful, caring
people in Tel Aviv. See
Gaza Gas Murder and Robbery
for more and better details.
29 December 2010
Right Wingers Have Bigger Amygdalas
QUOTE
Our political allegiances could be hard-wired into our
brains, neuroscientists believe. Researchers have found evidence that the brains
of conservatives are a different shape to those of Left-wingers......... Scans of 90 students’ brains at University College London
uncovered a ‘strong correlation’ between the thickness of two particular
areas of grey matter and an individual’s political views. Self-proclaimed right-wingers had a more pronounced
amygdala - a primitive part of the brain associated with emotion......... However, those aligned to the left had thicker anterior
cingulates - which is an area associated with anticipation and
decision-making. UNQUOTE The
Amygdala
is strongly
programmed by generations of surviving to carry on doing just that. The newer
parts of the
brain are more about abstract thinking.
Risk: The Science and Politics of Fear
by Dan Gardner explains.
Chip And PIN Flaw Exposed - Banks Try To Censor The Truth
QUOTE
Banks were yesterday accused of a cover-up after they
tried to silence a Cambridge University scientist who exposed a fatal flaw
in chip and PIN card security. The UK Cards Association, which represents the country’s
biggest banks, objected to research that showed how a simple £20 device
could be used by fraudsters to buy goods without entering a valid personal
identification number at the till. Ex-Labour MP Melanie Johnson, a former Treasury minister
who now works in the private sector as chairman of the UKCA, tried to stop
the embarrassing research being published. But in a blistering defence of academic freedom, Cambridge
professor Ross Anderson warned the attempt to gag the scientists was ‘a
nasty piece of spin-doctoring’ and ‘deeply offensive’. The professor said that Cambridge would continue to
publish controversial research just as it had done with scientists such as
Sir Isaac Newton and Charles Darwin. UNQUOTE
Professor Anderson
is a
big man in security. He actually does know what he is talking about. The real
story is that this flaw is known and the banks have not bothered to sort it out. Johnson is a
politician so naturally she does not understand the issues. You just might want to ask why she got
this job. A pay off for services, past, present and future could be the answer.
Her answer would be oink then her snout would be in the trough again.
The lad's thesis is on line at
The Smart Card Detective . Security foul ups like this are so routine that
you wonder why they bother complaining.
PS Professor Anderson's answer to that silly Johnson woman is at
Chip and PIN letter
and rather good.
Drugs - Sin, Crime Or Vice? QUOTE High Society [
is ]..... a serious examination of the drugs known over the past ten millennia
or so to have enhanced or modified the moods of man. Separated not only by the
reach of time to ancient Assyria, Nineveh and
Babylon , to ancient
Greece
and medieval Europe, but by such great oceans and transcontinental
distances that they were all but literally worlds apart, a thousand cultures
primitive and worldly-wise have turned to drugs for comfort, consolation and
repose, for the enjoyment of collective intoxication, for the relief of pain and
for the effects of heightened perception that may enhance the visionary powers
of the writer and the artist. All these and other aspects of our many drug
cultures are coolly examined in the exhibition, but in the end the curators ask
of all drugs only the too simple question first asked of drunkenness in 1884 by
Dr Norman Kerr, founder of the Society for the Study of Inebriety: “Is it a sin,
a crime, a vice or a disease?” UNQUOTE A civilised man asked sensible
questions in a civilised manner. He deserves sensible answers in a civilised
manner. There are too many special interests for it to happen. An answer follows
in the next one.
Drug Problems Sorted In Portugal
QUOTE LISBON, Portugal --
Ten years ago, the Lisbon neighborhood was a hellhole, a "drug supermarket"
where some 5,000 users lined up every day to buy heroin and sneaked into a
hillside honeycomb of derelict housing to shoot up. In dark, stinking corners,
addicts - some with maggots squirming under track marks - staggered between the
occasional corpse, scavenging used, bloody needles......... At that time, Portugal, like the junkies of Casal Ventoso,
had hit rock bottom: An estimated 100,000 people - an astonishing 1 percent of
the population - were addicted to illegal drugs. So, like anyone with little
to lose, the Portuguese took a risky leap: They decriminalized the use of all
drugs in a groundbreaking law in 2000............
"The disasters that were predicted by critics didn't
happen," said University of Kent professor Alex Stevens, who has studied
Portugal's program. "The answer was simple: Provide treatment."  Drugs in Portugal are still illegal. But here's what
Portugal did: It changed the law so that users are sent to counseling and
sometimes treatment instead of criminal courts and prison....... Other European countries treat drugs as a public health
problem, too, but Portugal stands out as the only one that has written that
approach into law. The result: More people tried drugs, but fewer ended up
addicted.
UNQUOTE American politicians have thrown billions at the narcotics
industry and failed utterly - apart from driving prices and quality down. They
tried the same thing before with alcohol.
Prohibition in the United States
didn't work either.
Four Islamic Terrorists Captured In Denmark
QUOTE
Denmark 's intelligence service has
arrested four people suspected of planning an "imminent" terror attack against a
newspaper that printed the controversial Prophet Muhammad cartoons.......... Pet
said the group had planned to enter the building where the Jyllands-Posten daily
has its Copenhagen news hub and had wanted "to kill as many of the people
present as possible"....... The three suspects living in Sweden have been
identified as a 44-year-old Tunisian citizen, a 29-year-old Lebanon-born man and
a 30-year-old Swedish resident whose origin is unknown. One of the suspects is a
26-year-old Iraqi asylum seeker living in Copenhagen. UNQUOTE Sweden's
government are the fools or rogues who let these thugs in. One result is that
Malmö is the rape capital of Scandinavia.
Israeli Banks Rob Holocaust® Survivors
QUOTE
Investigations by the Israeli parliament have dug up disturbing evidence that
Israel has been profiting for decades from vast sums invested in local banks by
European Jews who died in the Nazi death camps.  And
even now [
sixty years later
] the banks are delaying returning the money to their heirs. But
unlike a similar scandal that hit European banks in the mid-90s, almost no
pressure is being brought to bear on the Israeli banks by the Israeli government
or by Jewish reparation organisations representing Holocaust families, who were
the main critics of the European banks.
The
Israeli government is believed to be keeping quiet because it is deeply involved
in the local banking scandal itself, and the Jewish organisations are reported
to be concerned that exposure of the story will damage Israel's international
reputation [
and cast light on their own thieving - Editor
]. UNQUOTE
We are supposed to pretend we believe the
Holocaust® story
and not notice that the
Jews don't care a twopenny damn about its alleged victims even if they are Jews.
We are not told that they are milking their story for every gigabuck it is
worth. That includes screwing the victims real and alleged. You might have
thought that over $60 billion profit tax free was enough for anyone. You would be wrong.
Israel Offered Nukes To Apartheid South Africa
QUOTE
It's taken more than three decades, but the combination of a regime change in
South Africa, a new book on SA-Israeli relations and some ancient sensor data
has finally proven that Israel has nuclear weapons. And may have helped SA
acquire its own, at a time when that was hardly responsible.........
Or, try out yet a third thriller, set out in a thoroughly
researched academic-style book to be published this week. In sneak previews
over the weekend, disclosures of previously-secret South African documents
showed that the Israeli government offered to sell nuclear warheads to
apartheid-era South Africa. This is the first actual documentation of Israel’s
possession of nuclear weapons, in contrast to a decades-long official position
in which Israel neither confirmed nor denied the existence of a nuclear
arsenal. [ but see
Vanunu's Photos
Of Dimona Bomb Factory
- Editor ]......... Ultimately, however, South
Africa did not go ahead with the deal because of the cost. UNQUOTE While
the Jews were colluding with those awful South Africans they were subverting it
from within; their preferred approach to taking over. They used
Joe Slovo ,
a Jew from Lithuania to set up
Nelson Mandela
as their front man. Now they have
their very own
Apartheid
system in
Israel
backed by armed thugs and
Ethnic
Cleansing
28 December 2010 is the
Feast
of the Holy Innocents
King Herod, the King of the Jews had boys under two
years old in Bethlehem murdered in case they were Jesus.
Oil Is A
Strategic Commodity QUOTE Strip Oil of Its Strategic Value
Oil is......  is now the planet’s
number one strategic resource. And, as has been noted by numerous commentators
since the first Gulf War in 1990–1991, if the primary export of Iraq were
broccoli, we wouldn’t have given a damn that Saddam Hussein was a tinpot tyrant.
The unfortunate reality is that we have within
and around our national boundaries about 3 percent of the world’s oil, but we
consume about 24 percent of the world’s produced oil. So we buy what we don’t
produce. This dependence represents a massive transfer of wealth from us to
oil-producing countries. It’s a strategic blunder that would have horrified
Julius Caesar, who expanded the Roman Empire all the way to central Europe when
he ran out of fuel—wood—by deforesting virtually all of Italy,* and then paid
the price as his empire began to collapse from overexpansion. UNQUOTE
Depending on oil does make us vulnerable. Moving away from it does make sense. A
lot of this article is sound. Be thankful that the Foreign Office did not manage
to get rid of the
Falklands . Their treachery cost
men's lives. It would have cost us oil too - see
Falkland Oil Strike Could Be The Biggest Since The North Sea . It is
not on stream yet. The Argies might try stealing it again. We can depend on
Her Majesty's Government
to run down
the Royal Navy and make it easy for them.
Khodorkovsky Conviction Condemned By British And American Puppets
QUOTE Britain and the
United States
led international condemnation today after the Russian oil
magnate
Mikhail Khodorkovsky
and his business partner Platon Lebedev [ Another Jew -
Platon
Lebedev
] were found
guilty of theft and money laundering by a court in Moscow.
The Foreign Office said the conviction could
threaten trade relations between the countries [ Why? Ed. ], and Hillary Clinton
[ a
Foul
Mouthed Rat Bag  ], the US
secretary of state, said it raised "serious questions about the rule of law
being overshadowed by political considerations [
but not about her fraud in
Arkansas presumably. - Ed.
]"........
Earlier Richard Ottaway,
the chairman of the foreign affairs select committee [
and one of
Israel's agents of
influence in England
- Editor
], said the case could damage
Anglo-Russian business ties. "I think we have got to make the point pretty
forcefully that if they expect a good trading relationship between the two
countries, we want to see a rule of law and a commercial code that we can all
understand and follow," he told BBC Radio 4. UNQUOTE
Some newspapers tell some of the truth some of the time. This is not one of
them.
The Grauniad
did not bother to mention
that
Khodorkovsky
is a Jew and one of the
Oligarchs
who stole 85% of Russia's assets when the
USSR fell. Notice further that it does not mention that
Her Majesty's Government , chose to
harbour
Boris Berezovsky , another Jew,
Oligarch
and  thief
on the run. An English judge pretended that he believed Berezovsky's
claim that he would be tortured in Russia.
PS Annoying the Russians when they have huge oil reserves is stupidity - see the
previous article. It is also pandering to evil.
Jew Complains About Israeli Evil
QUOTE
In light of the often-bizarre and demagogic nature of her [ Jennifer Peto ]
graduate thesis, “ The Victimhood of the Powerful ”, one question
has abounded about Jenny Peto: what kind of person  is  she? After weeks of controversy surrounding her thesis, Peto’s
family has decided to break their silence over the matter. UNQUOTE Miss Peto tells it like it is. Jews get annoyed. They do not
like anyone telling the truth about their nasty ways. This article is part of
their counterattack. Believe what you will of it. Notice that they do not link
to her thesis so that you can read what she has to say. I have. The answer to
the question in this article is that she is a Jew, of Lesbos who has broken with
Zionism
and liars who pretend to be victims.
Israeli Diplomat
Whines About Hostile Questions From Jews Of Major Newspaper Owned By Jews QUOTE Israeli diplomat ambushed by NY
Times staff
The New York Times ,
flagship of the liberal American media, has never been a friend of the Jewish
state [
That is an obvious and blatant lie - Editor
]. But the newspaper’s aversion to Israel turned to open hostility this
month when its top editors ambushed and tore into an unsuspecting senior
official from the Israeli Consulate in New York City.
The Israeli official was invited by the
Times
editors, among them rabid columnist [
A rabid Jew by all means -
Ed.
]
Thomas Friedman , to
meet with them at their office. Being a veteran at dealing with the American
media, the official assumed the invitation was for a friendly discussion and
perhaps an interview regarding the peace process and other matters of importance
to Israel. The Israeli had no idea he was being invited
for what he described as a lynch.
As the meeting started, the
Times
editors - most of them Jews, and one of them a former Israeli - began to attack
the Israeli diplomat, and refused to give him even a moment to respond. They blamed Israel for everything, the
diplomat told
Israel Today . UNQUOTE Jews know all about
The Big Lie .
I am not sure if they invented the proposition that nobody would have the gall
to tell a lie that monstrous, such a gross inversion of the truth but they
certainly know how to use it. This is another instance. NB that the liar
who wrote this does not name the alleged victim was in order to make it more
difficult to find the truth.
27 December
2010 is the anniversary of
Gaza Massacre
in 2008-9.
Jews attacked Gaza and murdered 1300
Labour's PFI Costing Families £15,000 In Tax
QUOTE
EVERY working family in Britain faces
an average total tax bill of nearly £15,000 for Labour’s botched
public-sector investment schemes, an MP claimed last night......... The
miscalculation arose because Labour ministers failed to assess the long-term
costs of the privately-funded schemes.
UNQUOTE
Brown
used
Privatization
as a system of post dated cheques
which defraud the unborn. He also robbed the dead by selling off government
held assets. And of course he robs the living too. If you think he is
extorting less than
80%
of an honest
working man's wage talk to your accountant or,  possibly a good psychiatrist.
This is not to say that Cameron is any better.
Nine Pakistani Terrorists Charged QUOTE Nine men were
remanded in custody yesterday after being charged in connection with a
suspected pre-Christmas terrorist plot in the UK. The suspects, aged between
19 and 28 and from Cardiff, London and Stoke-on-Trent, were accused of
carrying out reconnaissance missions on agreed targets and testing out
incendiary devices ahead of the thwarted attack.........
The suspects from Cardiff are Gurukanth
Desai, 28, Omar Sharif Latif, 26, and Abdul Malik Miah, 24. The London
suspects are Mohammed Moksudur Rahman Chowdhury, 20, from Tower Hamlets, and
Shah Mohammed Lutfar Rahman, 28, from Newham. The suspects from Stoke-on-Trent
are Nazam Hussain, 25, Usman Khan, 19, Mohibur Rahman, 26, and Abul Bosher
Mohammed Shahjahan, 26. UNQUOTE Our wonderful government imports them
then acts surprised when it turns out that they are vicious. But it is very
keen to suppress the fact that they are foreign enemy imported as an act of
treason. They also use it as an excuse to spy on us, turning England into a
slave state.
UN States Our Human Right To WikiLeaks Information QUOTE
The United Nations has responded to the ongoing WikiLeaks
kerfuffle, urging member states to –  ahem
– remember the basic human
right to access information held by governments and other public authorities.
In issuing a
joint statement on Wikileaks
with the Inter-American Commission on Human
Rights, the United Nations (UN) special rapporteur on freedom of opinion and
expression does not mention the US or other involved countries by name. But he
does mention "the release of diplomatic cables by the organization Wikileaks"
– a reference to the classified US State Department cables released late last
month – and clearly, he's concerned that in responding to the leaks, the US
and other countries will step on established international legal principles
– if they haven't already.
UNQUOTE America is a crime state run by an illegal foreigner, born in
Kenya , who is therefore ineligible to be president.
Remember that the
FBI
carried out the
Fort Marcy
Massacre
and the
Ruby
Ridge Massacre , then did the investigations. They got away with murder.
Then there is
Bush
waging war, killing thousands to steal
Oil    for
Israel . Harassing one infowarrior is another abuse of
power.
Global
Warming Update - Major Blizzard In New England
QUOTE A monster blizzard that barreled up the coast on
Sunday continued to swirl over the New York region and the Northeast into
Monday morning, with barrages of wind-driven snow that closed airports,
disrupted rail and highway travel
and transformed a dozen states into
enchanted and borderless white dreamscapes. UNQUOTE America is used to
snow. America is used to liars. Marketing
Global
Warming
means lying. It works too. The pay off is humungous.
Carbon Emission Trading
explains. NB
A $54 Trillion
Boondoggle
is really big time fraud.
New Zealand Climate Scientists Admit To Faking Temperatures
- The Actual Temps Show Little Warming Over Last 50 Years QUOTE Climate “scientists” across the world have been blatantly fabricating
temperatures in hopes of convincing the public and politicians that modern
global warming is unprecedented and accelerating.
The scientists doing the fabrication are usually employed
by the government agencies or universities, which thrive and exist on taxpayer
research dollars dedicated to global warming research. A classic example of
this is the New Zealand climate agency, which is now admitting their
scientists produced bogus “warming” temperatures for New Zealand.
“NIWA makes the huge admission that New Zealand has
experienced hardly any warming during the last half-century. For all their
talk about warming, for all their rushed invention of the “Eleven-Station
Series” to prove warming.. UNQUOTE
Lies, damned lies and statistics. Some things just do not change.
Thieving Jew Convicted
QUOTE
A court in Moscow today found the oil tycoon,
Mikhail Khodorkovsky , guilty of theft and money laundering in a
politically tinged trial that is seen as a weathervane for
Russia 's future course. Viktor Danilkin, the trial judge, told the packed court
that Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54,
"carried out the embezzlement of property entrusted to the defendants".......... The two men have been in jail since they were arrested
on fraud charges in 2003. A court sentenced them to eight years in prison
two years later, but a new trial on fresh charges of embezzling $25bn
(£16bn) began last year. UNQUOTE
The Guardian
does not bother to tell us that
Khodorkovsky
is one of the
Oligarchs
who stole 85% of Russia's assets when the
USSR fell. It is alleged that one oligarch was not a Jew but it certainly is not
Khodorkovsky. Having robbed Russia blind Khodorkovsky decided to go political.
Trying it on with
Vladimir Putin
was not a good idea. He was not a
KGB
colonel for
nothing. Vlad gets a bad press in the West but then it is controlled by Jews.
Russians say he is their best ruler since
Peter the Great
PS Stealing $25 billion qualifies as really big time thieving.
26 December 2010 is
Boxing Day
Vatican Obstructed Irish Paedophile Investigation
QUOTE
The
Vatican
refused to allow its officials to testify before an Irish
commission investigating the clerical abuse of children and was angered
when they were summoned from Rome, US embassy cables released by WikiLeaks
reveal. Requests for information from the
2009 Murphy commission into sexual and physical abuse by clergy
"offended many in the Vatican" who felt that the Irish government had " failed
to respect and protect Vatican sovereignty during the investigations ",
a cable says.
Despite the lack of co-operation from the Vatican, the commission was
able to substantiate many of the claims and concluded that some bishops
had tried to cover up abuse, putting the interests of the Catholic church
ahead of those of the victims. Its report identified 320 people who
complained of child sexual abuse between 1975 and 2004 in the Dublin
archdiocese.........
On 21 March this year, Benedict issued a letter savaging the Irish
bishops for their earlier handling of the crisis: "Grave errors of
judgment were made and failures of leadership occurred. All this has
seriously undermined your credibility and effectiveness." UNQUOTE
This is a great pity. The Pope did make the right noises in the end but it will
take a lifetime to live down. The
Borgia popes
have not
been forgotten five centuries later. The Jews are better at covering up their
crimes and at brazening them out. Alleging that
King Herod
was not
really a Jew and putting his
Massacre of the
Innocents
at only a few dozen is typical. BTW they have their own very fair
share of perverts and cover ups - see
Awareness Centre
for more and better details.
Holy Land Tourists Robbed By Jews
QUOTE
But a radical improvement in the security situation
over the past few years, after the end of the second intifada, has
reversed the trend and allowed tourists to pour in. The problem, say the
authorities, is that Bethlehem's boom is not a very profitable one – at
least not for many Palestinians. Most visitors spend too little time and
cash in a city where the constraints of the Israeli occupation have
dramatically diminished sources of employment, apart from tourism. The
majority of visitors come by bus, spend a couple of hours in the church
and then return to
Israel , where they spend most of their holiday money.
"It is true that this is a record year and that we have
never received so many tourists in Bethlehem. The problem is that we only
get 10% of the tourist revenues. The rest stays in Israel," complains
Palestinian tourism minister Khouloud Daibes. A total of 1.4 million
people have visited Jesus's birthplace this year, a 60% increase compared
with last year. According to the minister, 70%-80% of this year's tourists
are one-day visitors. UNQUOTE Extortion is a genetic trait. They
worm their way in, rob people blind then whine about their problems when
people react. That is just what a Jew says about them - see
Fatal Embrace
25 December 2010
is
Christmas
Day
It follows
the traditions of the older
Yule .
Christmas
Encyclopædia
Britannica explains .
The
Christmas
Truce
on the Western Front happened in
1914. The generals was not amused.
Vatican
Calls For End To Israeli Occupation QUOTE
At conference on Christians in the Middle East, US Melkite
archbishop says: "There is no longer a chosen people."
ROME – Bishops from the Middle East who were summoned to
Rome by the pope demanded on Saturday that Israel accept UN resolutions
calling for an end to its “occupation” of Arab lands.
In a final joint communiqué, the bishops also told Israel it shouldn’t use
the Bible to justify “injustices” against the Palestinians. UNQUOTE It
is nice to see that the Christian hierarchy does not always pander to Jews.
A Good Year For Bad Science
QUOTE
It’s been a marvellous year for bullshit. We saw quantitative
evidence showing that
drug adverts aimed at doctors are routinely factually inaccurate , while
pharmaceutical company ghostwriters were the
secret hands
behind letters
to the Times, and
a whole series of
academic papers . We saw more drug companies and even regulators
withholding
evidence
from
doctors
and patients
that a drug was dangerous – the most important and
neglected ethical issue in modern medicine — and that whistleblowers
have a rubbish life .
Bias is everywhere. Academic papers from people who get money
from tobacco companies are
vastly more likely
to say that cigarettes prevent Alzheimer’s, and we
saw the first
good quantitative evidence
describing how academics routinely mislead
readers about their negative results in academic papers, by spinning them as
positive. Dodgy facts aren’t the only reason clever people believe stupid
things, as demonstrated by a gale of research on irrationality.
Superstitious rituals
really do improve performance .
UNQUOTE Believe nothing until it is officially denied -
according to
Otto
von Bismarck
- allegedly. It sounds cynical. It is true. Think of Blair and
all of those naughty WMDs that Saddam Hussein did/did not have. Blacks are
reverting to their normal levels of science - see the next one.
Haiti Mobs Lynch 45 Witch Doctors Who Spread Cholera
QUOTE
Lynch mobs have murdered 45 people in Haiti after accusing
them of spreading cholera by using sorcery. Most of
the victims have been hacked to death with machetes or stoned in the streets
before their killers set fire to their corpses. The savage scenes have occurred across the
earthquake-ravaged island over the last week. Prosecutor Kesner Numa said that the dead were accused of
spreading the disease in regions which had been unaffected by the outbreak
to date. UNQUOTE The earthquake happened on 12
January 2010 and they are still
sitting around waiting for someone to do something about it. Be aware that
Cholera
is spread by bad
hygiene. Clean water is what it takes to stay healthy.
Police Cover Up For Racist Thugs QUOTE A TEENAGE boy was knocked
unconscious with a house brick, stabbed with a screwdriver and “left for dead”
in a vicious race attack. Joseph Haigh, 14, was savagely beaten by the gang of
up to 15 Asian youths in Thornhill on Friday night. The gang hurled racist abuse
at him, constantly referring to the colour of his skin, yet police refused to
classify the attack as racially-motivated...... “They were calling him ‘white
trash’ and white this, that and the other....... “If it had been an attack by
whites on an Asian lad it would have been a definite race attack. When it’s the
other way round they don’t want to know.” UNQUOTE
Police pander to politicians, corrupt politicians to be sure. Concealing the
truth is policy and a very effective form of lying.
Islamic Slaving Goes On To This Day QUOTE
I have written
several blogs
on the horrific abuse suffered by the maids at the hands
of their sponsors/employers in Saudi Arabia and
other Middle Eastern countries . Directly below, the original one I wrote, is
the latest indication that nations are noticing and seek to change the plight of
their vulnerable women/slaves who seek maid and other unskilled jobs in the
Middle East............
The vast majority of these women are seeking an opportunity to
earn money and send remittances back to their families -
Here are some of the sickening stories of abuse, etc that I came
across with a quick net search:
Saudi employer accused of Ramadan abuse on Indonesian maid - burned her with
hot iron and lye, forced to eat feces, smashed her teeth and jammed broken
teeth down her throat
Widespread gang rape
of slave boys by Arab masters
Saudi man/sponsor beat maid - whipped her with an electric wire,
burned her genitals & broke her front teeth --- and never paid her
Man
fractures maid's spine
Saudi couple beat Indonesian maid for one month - maid's hands and feet
are amputated due to gangrene
15 "youths" try to gang rape maid
Saudi man beats 2 Indonesian maids to death puts 2 others in Intensive
Care
Filipino woman hired as beautician jumps from window after being beaten by
female employer and told she must now be a maid
Indian
maids in Kuwait - beaten and tortured by employers then tossed onto road
Bahrain - Ethiopian maid jumps from second floor window to escape abuse
Maid arrested for bewitching her employer
UNQUOTE Sincerely nasty, sincerely racist, sincerely ignored by the
main stream media in the West.
Obama Goes Easy On Criminals If They Are Jews
QUOTE The Obama
administration has stated it will aggressively go after Wall Street criminals,
but is the government letting two defendants off easy?........... But what
neither Holder nor Bharara have highlighted is a major case involving Pequot
Capital Management, once the world’s largest hedge fund, and alleged insider
trading in shares of Microsoft......... Time may be running out. The criminal
statute of limitations on insider trading, the underlying alleged crime, has
already expired.....
However, a powerful Senator did not
hesitate to comment on the matter. “The Department of Justice owes the public an
explanation for why there have been no criminal prosecutions despite the SEC
openly making accusations of a witness being bought off,” Senator Charles
Grassley of Iowa told POGO. Grassley is
slated to be the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee , which
oversees the DOJ. “The public has a huge interest in the case, congressional
hearings were held, and the SEC has now characterized the payments as 'hush
money.' So where is the Justice Department?”................
But their larger beef is that in the two years since
the peak of America’s recent financial meltdown, DOJ has not brought a criminal
case
against any major Wall Street figure in connection
with the financial
crisis.
UNQUOTE Truthout does not quite get round to pointing out that the
perpetrators are Jews but look at
Who's a Jew -
Who's A Thief?
Newspapers Are Dying Out
Newspaper circulation figures
November daily sales
%age change on 2009
January 2000 figures
Daily Mirror
1,177,629
-6.54
2,270,543
Daily Star
756,686
-8.10
502,647
The Sun
2,898,113
-2.04
3,557,336
Daily Express
639,690
-6.64
979,042
Daily Mail
2,100,885
-2.22
2,353,915
The Daily Telegraph
652,762
-12.28
1,022,263
Financial Times
400,699
-.09
435,478
The Guardian
270,582
-11.35
401,560
The Independent
177,636
-4.78
222,106
The Times
466,311
-17.21
726,349
Newspapers are propaganda machines run by men with agendas. Patriots
they are not. Some are not Jews. I will not be shedding tears for them.
PS Surprisingly good comment is at
Newspaper
Are Dying
24 December 2010 is Christmas Eve The
Russians invaded Afghanistan this day in 1979 - see
Soviet
war in
Afghanistan
2 or maybe it was a day later. They got no joy out of it.
Islamic Thugs Get Soft Sentences For Attempted Murder QUOTE
When one first reads the below Daily Mail headline -
you'd first think that these cowardly specks of human waste had received 20
years EACH for torturing a lone man with a crowbar, stabbing him with a broken
bottle and battering him with a hammer  - leaving the victim within inches of
losing his life..........
Thus, we find the mainstream media headlining the
combined  jail time for attempted murder - that would have succeeded in being
a murder - had the police not intervened.......
Rashel Hussain (left) was arrested at the scene while the
others fled. He was jailed for six years after pleading guilty to grievous
bodily harm and violent disorder. Taharak Hussain, 21, got seven years for
grievous bodily harm. UNQUOTE They did not charge the perpetrators
with attempted murder. This may well qualify as
malicious non-prosecution . The judge went easy on them while
Her Majesty's Government
keeps on
importing them, bribing them with our money.
Her Majesty's Allegedly Loyal Opposition
ditto. It is a system of buying
fraudulent votes.
$385 Million Security System Finds Zero Terrorists QUOTE
When the uproar over full-body scanners and enhanced pat-downs at airport
checkpoints hit a crescendo around the Thanksgiving holiday and then quickly
dissipated, many security professionals and journalists asked why the
Transportation Security Administration (TSA) does not behaviorally profile
passengers as Israel does........ The rationale behind behavioral profiling is
straightforward. It's better to detect terrorists with malicious intent rather
than weapons. After all, the 19 hijackers during 9/11 were able to commandeer
four airplanes, armed with little more than box cutters and bomb threats, and
kill nearly 3,000 people. The best prevention is ensuring terrorists don't board
planes. UNQUOTE One technique the Jews use is to shoot possible terrorists
before they get to the check in. This saves disrupting flights. In America it is
then necessary to make it look as though they were shot with good reason but
perverting legal investigation is routine. Square the police, make sure the
judge uses the same synagogue or whatever.
Jews Driven By Hatred And Fear Of White Men QUOTE
The
Daily Beast
reports
that Joe Lieberman [
a Jew in American politics
] “worked tirelessly in rounding
up enough votes for the Senate to repeal the don’t ask don’t tell
policy.” What’s interesting is his motivation: ““I’m a Jewish-American,
a member of a minority group raised from the earliest part of my life to
be deeply grateful for all the rights and opportunities and freedom
afforded Americans.”
That reminds of a quote from
Charles Silberman’s
A Certain People
in the
chapter on immigration
in
The Culture of Critique :
American Jews are committed to cultural tolerance because of their
belief—one firmly rooted in history—that Jews are safe only in a
society acceptant of a wide range of attitudes and behaviors, as well
as a diversity of religious and ethnic groups. It is this belief, for
example, not approval of homosexuality, that leads an overwhelming
majority of U.S. Jews to endorse “gay rights” and to take a liberal
stance on most other so-called “social” issues.........................
In other  words, it’s all about fear and loathing of a homogeneous
White, Christian culture that prizes heterosexuality. Jewish voting
behavior has nothing to do with economics (83% voted for Obama despite
their high socioeconomic class profile) but everything to do with
creating a powerful coalition against the traditional people and culture
of America..........
Despite the fact that traditional Jewish culture strongly opposes
homosexuality........ , Orthodox Jews like Lieberman instinctively understand that
support of public homosexuality is a blow to the traditional people and
culture of America despite the fact that it strongly conflicts with
their own religion. They therefore celebrate their victory over “Don’t
ask, don’t tell.”
UNQUOTE Jews are not FOR homosexuals, blacks, women or other
undesirables. They are against civilization which means using
Feminism ,
Homosexuals
and
Blacks . But there are negroes who know that Jews
were the biggest slave traders and the biggest liars - see
blacksandjews.com
on the point.
Holocaust® Racketeers
Still Trying It On
QUOTE
The office for "ghetto work" was founded by the office of
HANDLING&REFERRALS FOR HOLOCAUST SURVIVORS COMPENSATION ENTITELMENTS [ sic ] in Tel
Aviv, Israel. It was established in view of the pressing need to assist
those Holocaust survivors who worked in the ghetto, and are entitled to
receive a monthly pension from the German Social Security Authorities (DRV),.............
UNQUOTE You might wonder just why they are still advertising for
customers over sixty years later, when anyone who worked for the Nazis is almost
certainly dead. You also might wonder why the money the Germans paid to the Jews
has not got through to victims real or alleged. Ask
Where The
Holocaust® Went . Not much got to the punters. See
Israeli Government Throws Holocaust® Survivors
A Few Shekels Sixty Five Years Late
[ 11 April 2010 ] or
The
Holocaust Industry- Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish
Suffering
Czech Court Rejects Jew's Restitution Claim QUOTE
A Czech court has rejected
a restitution claim by the Jewish descendants of a man who owned a button
factory taken over by the Nazis and nationalized. The Constitutional Court
yesterday overturned a 2009 Supreme Court ruling and all previous rulings
of lower courts that found in favor of three relatives of Zikmund Waldes,
who owned the Koh-i-noor factory in Prague when the Nazis seized it in
1939. The factory was nationalized
after the war in 1945. No compensation was paid. UNQUOTE The Germans
and Swiss have paid billions to Jews with hard luck stories. They made some $80
billion and rising. Not much of it got to victims, real or alleged. Over sixty
years later they are still stalling. Jews screw Jews just as much as honest
people. Jews don't pay compensation to anyone of course. The victims of the
Gaza Massacre
know that. At all event the survivors do.
23 December 2010
Police Sack Vicious Thug QUOTE
A
police
officer who was jailed but then
cleared on appeal
of throwing a woman head-first on to the concrete
floor of a cell was sacked by his force today. Sergeant Mark Andrews was
caught on CCTV dragging Pamela Somerville, 59, across the floor of Melksham
police station in Wiltshire before shoving her into a cell................. "We have always accepted that Pamela Somerville was
injured whilst in our care and I want to apologise again to her for the way
she was treated ….. "The criminal appeal hearing concluded that Pamela
Somerville had been lawfully arrested, was intoxicated, very unco-operative,
verbally abusive, and disruptive to the processes which the law required the
police to carry out. Nevertheless, this conduct hearing has concluded that
Sgt Andrews actions, whilst not criminal, fell well below the standards
expected............
"The public can be reassured that their safety remains our
top priority and we will learn any lessons that need to be learnt to reduce
the chance of any such future incident."
UNQUOTE The police will do whatever
it takes to get away with it. That means that perjury is routine, destruction of
evidence as well. When they cannot avoid a trial it all comes round to the funny
handshake mob. Sacking Andrews makes them look as though they care when it comes
to compensation. That is not that important to them; it is only tax payers'
money. When that is sorted they may well give him another job as a driving
instructor or some such. It has been done before. The police man fronting for
them is a smarmy rogue.
PS Before taking the crocodile tears seriously read about the
Battle of the
Bean Field . It was the same gang of thugs.
Police Thug
His victim
Policemen Arrested For Perverting The Course Of Justice QUOTE
A policeman who escaped a drink-drive ban after blaming a pub
barman of serving him the wrong drinks has been arrested. PC Myles Hughes, 34, had argued he was only over
the legal limit because he had been served pints of lager top - lager with a
splash of lemonade - instead of pints of lager shandy. The policeman was later caught driving with a
blood-alcohol reading of 85mg in 100ml of blood, narrowly over the legal
limit. PC Hughes pleaded guilty to drink-driving at Macclesfield
Magistrates' Court last month. But appearing at a special circumstances hearing Hughes
said his drinks at the Flower Pot Inn near Macclesfield, Cheshire, had more
alcohol than he ordered.......... Barman Paul Doyle admitted giving the officer one shandy
and four pints of lager top instead of the shandy he had ordered....... The barman, Mr Doyle, and a GMP sergeant have also been
arrested in connection with the allegations. UNQUOTE It looks as
though the sergeant told him how to lie his way out of it. The interesting point
is how they got caught. Boasting to strangers can have that effect.
12 Days of Guido
- Investigation of the Year QUOTE
Farm-Gate :
Spelman’s Agri-Business, Bio-Tech Lobbying Past
On the campaign trail David Cameron said
“It is the next big scandal waiting to happen. It’s an
issue that crosses party lines and has tainted our politics for too long, an
issue that exposes the far-too-cosy relationship between politics, government,
business and money.”
This
week Cameron appointed Caroline Spelman to be the Secretary of State for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.  Obviously he feels that nanny-gate is all
water under the bridge. Spelman’s long history in agricultural politics and lobbying
somehow makes her an ideal candidate for the job in his judgment.
UNQUOTE
Cameron is an unprincipled rogue but not such an oaf as Brown.
Scottish Politician Convicted Of Perjury
QUOTE
Former Scottish Socialist Party leader Tommy Sheridan was
facing years in jail after he was convicted today of lying during his
defamation case against the News of the World. The
firebrand politician was found guilty after being awarded £200,000 following
his successful 2006 action during which the newspaper claimed he was an
adulterer who visited swingers' clubs. But in his 12-week trial, the court heard from a
succession of high-ranking members of the SSP who said Sheridan had
confessed to attending such a club in Manchester on two occasions.......
At the start of his trial in October, he faced 18
allegations, which were reduced by the prosecution to six........... The politician was found guilty of five allegations under
one charge on the indictment. The last remaining allegation, that he had a
sexual relationship with former News of the World columnist Anvar Khan, was
deleted. UNQUOTE Sadly it is not
Blair
or
Brown
just a
jumped up monkey called Sheridan. Lying about
fornicating with a whore was what did for
Archer , one of Maggie's. He wound up in Belmarsh.
Jews In Seattle Try To Hide Their War Crimes QUOTE
Leaders of four Jewish organizations asked senior King County
officials Wednesday to reconsider plans to put an ad on Metro buses alleging
"Israeli war crimes," saying local Jews have good reason to fear it could lead
to crimes against them. During the "open and candid
and respectful conversation," the Jewish leaders said they feel the ads "are
inappropriate here in this community and actually pose a public-safety
threat," said Hilary Bernstein, Pacific Northwest community director of the
Anti-Defamation League. UNQUOTE These comedians are not Americans, they
are Jews who support the vicious hooligans who run Palestine, the Stolen Land.
They do not care about the
Gaza Massacre . The dead, 1400 of them were
Palestinians. They don't matter. Of course when it comes to marketing the
Holocaust®
and their 6 million story it is
different.
Madoff Fraud Is Robbing People
QUOTE On Friday the astonishing news broke that the estate of Jeffrey M. Picower had agreed to cough up $7.2 billion to the liquidator of the Bernard
Madoff fraud and the Federal Government.........  This news was astonishing because the amount – said to be “the largest
single forfeiture in American judicial history” – represents a considerable
35% of the amount thought to have been paid into the Madoff Ponzi scheme,
raising the prospect of material compensation to some of the victims.....
What was not astonishing was the rush to present what was in fact proof
that Picower was a huge looter of the Madoff victims as evidence of noblesse
oblige on the part of his widow, and to cover up what actually happened.
CNN
reports
that
Picower withdrew $7.8 billion from Madoff’s investment firm since the
1970s, even though he only deposited $619 million, according to the
trustee.
Read more »
UNQUOTE So Picower gets to keep $14 billion looted by
Madoff. Jews steal together. Jews lie together. Jews get rich together. It is
just honest men who pay.
22 December 2010
American Ambassador Working For Monsanto, The GM Racketeers QUOTE
The former United States ambassador to France suggested "moving to retaliation"
against France and the European Union (EU) in late 2007 to fight a French ban on
Monsanto's genetically modified (GM) corn and changes in European policy toward
biotech crops, according to a
cable   released by WikiLeaks on Sunday.
Former Ambassador Craig
Stapleton was concerned about France's decision to suspend cultivation of
Monsanto's MON-810 corn and warned that a new French environmental review
standard could spread anti-biotech policy across the EU. President George W.
Bush
appointed Stapleton
as ambassador to France in 2005, and in 2009,
Stapleton left the office and became an owner of the St. Louis Cardinals
baseball team. Bush and Stapleton co-owned the Texas Rangers during the 1990s.
Monsanto is based in St. Louis.........
A recent Truthout
report
detailed the story of Dr. Gilles-Eric Seralini, a scientist at the
University of Caen in France. Seralini's
supporters
claim the scientist has faced intimidation from within the French
scientific community after he published several studies showing Monsanto GM corn
and glyphosate posed risks to human health. UNQUOTE Who paid Stapleton?
Monsanto? Their mates? Do we need
Monsanto ? No! They
are irresponsible hooligans on the make and Jews at that. Do we need
Genetic Modification ? No! Is the American government corrupt? It certainly
is.
Liberal Loud Mouth Hates Murdoch - Liberal Loud Mouth Sacked By
Murdoch QUOTE A humbled and diminished
Vince Cable
was tonight allowed to cling on to his cabinet post as business
secretary, but was stripped of all responsibility for media policy after it
emerged he had told undercover reporters that he had "declared war" on
Rupert Murdoch
over the media magnate's plans to take over all of BSkyB.
Cable's reckless claims, in a secretly
recorded conversation, were considered a flagrant breach of his duty to take a
quasi-judicial approach to the proposed takeover, and were declared "totally
unacceptable and inappropriate" by Downing Street. Many had expected an angry
David Cameron to sack Cable or transfer him to a lesser cabinet role............
He also claimed the government was in danger
of pushing through a kind of Maoist revolution in public services that was in
danger of getting out of control.......... He asserted that Cameron was still
secretly planning to get rid of winter fuel payments. Cable confided these
private thoughts to what he believed were two young female constituents he had
never met, a decision that left his Lib Dem colleagues flabbergasted at his
naivety or vanity.... But within minutes of the hour-long press conference
ending, the BBC revealed that the Telegraph had suppressed the more explosive
part of the transcript in which Cable said he had declared war on the Murdoch
empire. UNQUOTE A Tory and Liberal coalition is unstable. This weakens
Cameron , a slimy rogue on the make. It could all fall
apart and force another general election.
1 in 3 'British' Muslim Students Back Killing For Islam, 40% Want
Sharia Law
QUOTE
Around a third of young British Muslims favour killing in the
name of Islam, according to a survey revealed by the WikiLeaks' publication
of U.S. diplomatic cables. A survey of 600 Muslim
students at 30 universities throughout Britain found that 32 per cent of
Muslim respondents believed killing in the name of religion is justified.
A U.S. diplomatic cable from January 2009 quoted a
poll
by
the
Centre
for Social Cohesion
as saying 54 per cent wanted a Muslim party
to represent their world view in Parliament and 40 per cent want Muslims in
the UK to be under Sharia law.........
The outreach plan for British Muslims was published a
month after a cable that revealed that while the community had grown to more
than 2 million, unemployment rates were higher among Muslim men and women
than in any other religion.
Muslims were also found to have the highest disability
rates - with 24 per cent of men and 21 per cent of women claiming [
alleging/lying about - delete to taste
] a
disability - while the cable also cited statistics claiming Muslims were
also the most likely group to be unavailable for work or not actively
seeking employment due to illness, their studies or family commitments. UNQUOTE
One answer is to stop importing them. Another very effective approach is to stop
paying them to live here. But
Her Majesty's Government
is a bunch of
traitors intent on destroying England, except for the bits they live in. Ditto
Her Majesty's Allegedly Loyal Opposition
To be fair about these swine; they got Blair bang to rights.
Black Football Thug Head Butted Girlfriend QUOTE
Football star Michael Ricketts has admitted attacking his girlfriend outside
a restaurant after celebrating his birthday. The 6ft 3ins former England
striker struck Nuala McEwan before head-butting her twice. Ms McEwan's eye was left partially closed following the attack and she
was treated in hospital............ Ms McEwan recalled hearing restaurant staff tell Ricketts to stop and
feeling 'extreme pain' in her head.
The court heard that police officers, who were passing on patrol at the
time, arrested Ricketts. UNQUOTE Import thugs like him and see it all go wrong.
Blacks Show Us Multiculturalism For Real - Only Thousands Dead So Far QUOTE
All the foreigners and about half the Ivorians agree that
Alassane Ouattara won last month’s presidential election in Ivory Coast—but
not the southerners, who say that it was their man, Laurent Gbagbo. So the
Election Commission declared Ouattara the winner, and the Constitutional
Council declared Gbagbo the winner.
It’s been eight
years now since Ivory Coast, once the richest country in West Africa, was
divided. This election was supposed to end the division, but it has just
perpetuated it. Maybe it’s time to accept that Ivory Coast is two countries,
not one............
The problem has crippled Ivory Coast for almost 20 years,
and it will not go away. Mercifully, the killing so far has only been in the
thousands, not the tens or hundreds of thousands. But if Ivorians can’t
resolve the current dispute quickly, it may be time to consider a divorce.
UNQUOTE It is not really Christians versus Muslims. It is tribes versus
other tribes.
Her Majesty's Government
imports thugs
like this. HMG bribes them to come. HMG is a bunch of traitors.
Her Majesty's Allegedly Loyal Opposition
ditto.
Bill Browder Says The Russians Are Out To Kill Me
QUOTE
London-based businessman Bill Browder
has vowed to avenge the death of the lawyer who helped him uncover a '$230
million tax fraud' — wherever it leads...
A year ago last week,
millionaire hedge fund boss Bill Browder received a chilling call at his
north-west London home that would change his life for ever. The call was from
Russia and it was to say that Browder's lawyer, Sergei Magnitsky, who had
been held on trumped-up charges and tortured in a
Moscow prison, was dead. UNQUOTE
Bill
got out of Russia, alive
and rich. Now he is rocking the boat. Sour grapes? Who knows. Actually boat
rocking was the reason he had to do a runner. He is big on
publicity.
Greek Priest Tells The Truth About Jews Attacking The Family And
Civilization QUOTE
The European Jewish Congress (EJC) said Wednesday that it
was repulsed by the "intolerable hate-filled and anti-Semitic rant" of a
leading Greek priest who blamed world Jewry for the country's financial
problems........... While being interviewed on a morning show of Greece's largest
television station, Mega TV, the Metropolite of Piraeus Seraphim said that
international Zionism tries to destroy family values by promoting
one-parent families and same-sex marriages, and said there is a Zionist
conspiracy to enslave Greece and Christian Orthodoxy. The Metropolite also said that Hitler was just a tool used by Zionists
in order to ensure the establishment of Israel......... He went on to say that Jews such as "Rockefeller, Rotchschild
[ sic ] and Soros
control the international banking system that controls globalization."
UNQUOTE To be fair he is not quite right if, it really is IF he is being
quoted honestly. The Jews are running this story in Israel to frighten Jews
there and blacking it out in civilized countries to prevent us knowing the
truth.
21 December 2010
is
Midwinter, the shortest day.
North American Aerospace Defence Command (NORAD)
will tell you
Where Santa Is NOW!
A Dozen Islamic Terrorists Captured QUOTE
Police arrested 12 men in four
separate raids around England and Wales this morning in what was described as
a major national counter-terrorism operation. The men,
aged between 17 and 28, were held in Birmingham, Cardiff, London and
Stoke-on-Trent on suspicion of the commission, preparation or instigation of
an act of terrorism in the UK, police said. Searches of properties in the four locations are taking
place.........
A number of the men are Bangladeshi.
Intelligence was being gathered on the men until the arrests were made at 5am.
Police said counter-terror officers were unarmed when they detained the
men......They are also not connected with the
attempted suicide bomb attack in Sweden last week , which was carried out
by a man [ another Islamic ] who had lived in Luton, Bedfordshire.
UNQUOTE
Import vicious foreigners, treat them as civilized human beings, at our expense
of course then pretend to be surprised when they turn nasty. That is how it
works with
Her Majesty's Government , the Tory
regime and with
Her Majesty's Allegedly Loyal Opposition , the nastier Labour regime.
Air Hostess Who Smuggled £250,000 Of Cocaine Into England Gets 8
Years QUOTE
An air hostess who teamed up with a former public schoolboy to smuggle
£250,000 worth of cocaine into the country wept as she was jailed for eight
years. Mandeep Shahi, 27, took advantage of lax security while working for Air
Canada to smuggle four kilos of the drug on board in her luggage.......... After breezing through customs checks after landing at Heathrow, she
headed to a hotel to deliver the goods to a pair of major drug dealers........
Former public schoolboy Simon Howard-Harwood and Baljinder Nijjar, both
28, who collected the drugs she smuggled into Britain had admitted
conspiracy to supply prohibited drugs, while minicab driver Ghulem Malik,
53, was convicted of ferrying drugs for the pair.
On March 26 this year, Shahi flew into Heathrow from Toronto. After leaving the airport she checked into the Danubius Hotel, in
Regent’s Park, central London - which was being staked out by undercover
drugs officers who had been on the trail of Nijjar and Howard-Harwood for
months. UNQUOTE Three foreign intruders and one Englishman of the
make. Their security was sloppy so they came unstuck.
Her Majesty's Government
has imported
millions as cheap labour.
Her Majesty's Allegedly Loyal Opposition
brought millions in to enable
Vote Rigging .
Islamic Ratbag Makes
Fraudulent Complaint. Islamic Gets Six Months For Perjury QUOTE
A heated court case has seen a burqa-wearing
woman convicted of making a false complaint to police – She claimed a policeman
tried to remove her burqa to check her identity, but his official video proved
otherwise. So is this ongoing social friction just another argument for banning
the burqa? UNQUOTE Lying ratbag commits perjury because she
ignorant about modern technology such as police cameras. She is bringing up
seven more potential vindictive liars.
Eight Israeli Air Strikes On Gaza
QUOTE
Late Monday night, Israeli warplanes dropped bombs in different parts of the
Gaza Strip – initial reports from the ground indicate that at least eight
separate bombs were dropped in several areas in the crowded, 15-mile wide
Strip. A representative of the Qassam Brigades, the armed wing of
the Hamas party, stated that two of the Brigades' fighters were injured in one
of the air strikes in Khan Younis, in the southern Gaza Strip, one of whom was
seriously wounded............
The attacks come just two days after Israeli air strikes killed five
Palestinian resistance fighters on Saturday, and a teenage shepherd was
wounded by Israeli gunfire on Sunday.
Palestinian resistance groups responding to Saturday's assault fired seven
homemade shells across the border with Israel on Sunday. These crude homemade
shells consist of dynamite packed into metal piping, and cannot be aimed with
any accuracy. The shells landed in the Negev desert, causing no injuries or
damage.
UNQUOTE This minor bit of thuggishness is financed by the
American taxpayer. They supply the aircraft and the bombs. It proves quite
nicely that the Jews control America.
20 December 2010
Felix
Edmundovich Dzerzhinsky
founded the
Cheka ,
the first
Soviet
secret police
on this day in 1917
Islamic Thugs Force Boys To Lick Their Boots
QUOTE
RAILWAY police are hunting a
gang of thugs who told three teenagers: “Lick our boots” during a 30-minute
terror journey into Birmingham. Officers said the boys – two
16-year-olds and another aged 17 – were also threatened with violence and
suffered a “humiliating and degrading” ordeal at the hands of the gang. British Transport Police today
released CCTV images of eight people, including a girl, they want to trace
in connection with the incident. It happened when the louts boarded the New
Street-bound train at Blake Street Station, near Sutton Coldfield........
The frightened lads were
eventually robbed of their mobile phones, cash, train tickets and one had a
concert ticket stolen. Their assailants were seen
giggling and joking with each other as they left the train. UNQUOTE
How many "moderate", "peace loving" Islamics will be fingering the perpetrators?
Not very many is my answer. Zero is likely. The Islamics had their fun. Now
they will disappear into the multicultural slime created by
Her Majesty's Government
and
Her Majesty's Allegedly Loyal Opposition .
PS Islam is a religion of peace - allegedly.
Perpetrator 1
French President Sarkozy Targets Islamic Street Prayer QUOTE
Can anyone honestly see this ever happening in
Britain?  Which one of our so called Lib/Lab/Con leaders would stop
Muslims
from doing anything they damn well please?  Answer?
In fact, I'd fully expect the plethora of dhimmis
[
non-Islamics
],
in the UK, to lay down on the road and act as prayer rugs to facilitate
Muslim street prayer.
NICOLAS Sarkozy will take
another lurch to the Right with a speech on New Year's Eve calling Muslim
prayers in the street "unacceptable".
After his expulsions of gypsies and a crackdown on
immigrant crime, the French President will warn that the overflow of
Muslim faithful on to the streets at prayer time when mosques are packed
to capacity risks undermining the French secular tradition separating
state and religion.
He will doubtless be accused
of pandering to the far Right: the issue of Muslim prayers in the street
has been brought to the fore by Marine Le Pen, the charismatic new
figurehead of the National Front, who compared it to the wartime
occupation of France. UNQUOTE Miss le Pen has a certain je ne sais
quoi, whatever that might mean. Blair's hag decidedly has not.
Marine le Pen
Blair's old woman.
One In
Five Homosexuals Has HIV QUOTE CHICAGO, Sept 23 (Reuters) - Nearly one
in five gay and bisexual men in 21 major U.S. cities are infected with HIV,
and nearly half of them do not know it, U.S. health officials said on
Thursday. Young men, and especially young black men, are least likely to know
if they are infected with HIV, according to a study by the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. UNQUOTE One
in five homosexuals has a thoroughly unwholesome interest in choir boys.
Perhaps they are not all
Paedophiles . They claim that
they are not. The evidence is out there and they hate it - see
Paedophilia and Male
Homosexuality .
PS Islamics have views about homosexuals and inclination to do something about
them, something such as murder.
Israeli
Apartheid Policy Suffers A Small Set Back QUOTE
Arab family's
home win blow to Israeli 'Jews only' policy
The pretty two-storey home with a red-tiled roof built by Adel
and Iman Kaadan looks no different from the rows of other houses in Katzir, a
small hilltop community in northern Israel close to the West Bank. But, unlike the other residents of Katzir, the Kaadans moved into
their dream home this month only after a 12-year battle through the Israeli
courts. The small victory for the Kaadans, who belong to Israel's
Palestinian Arab minority, dealt a big blow to a state policy that for decades
has reserved most of the country's land for Jews.
Katzir is one of 695 so-called "co-operative associations",
communities mostly established since Israel's creation in 1948, whose chief
purpose is to bar non-Jews from residency. Last month, the Israeli parliament moved to enshrine in law the
right of these associations, comprising nearly 70 per cent of all communities in
Israel, to accept only Jews.......
Commentators have compared the legislation with South Africa's
notorious apartheid laws such as the Group Areas Act. A leading jurist,
Mordechai Kremnitzer, of Hebrew University in Jerusalem, said the bill gave off
the "foul odour of racism"........... "This legislation makes clear in very blunt fashion that the
thrust of policy in Israel is towards maintaining segregation in housing between
Jewish and Arab citizens," she said. UNQUOTE Are the swine running
Palestine, the Stolen Land any better than Adolf? Yes, when it comes to
marketing the proposition that they are victims rather than perpetrators. They
proved that with wall to wall marketing of their
Holocaust® story .
They keep quiet about the pay off; some $80 billion tax free and rising.
Competent? Yes. Vicious, shameless, liars? All of those too.
19 December 2010
China To Build Its First Aircraft Carrier As Cameron Scraps Ours
QUOTE
China is preparing to build its first aircraft carrier – as
Britain’s once-proud Royal Navy shrinks to its smallest size since the days
of Henry VIII. The Chinese move comes weeks after David Cameron
axed Britain’s carrier fleet and halved the overall number of warships to
25. Even though two super-carriers – HMS Queen Elizabeth and
HMS Prince Charles – are being built at a cost of £5.6 billion, China’s
naval plans will see it dwarf the UK’s dwindling power as a seafaring
nation............
China, which already has 1.6 million serving in the
world’s biggest army, now has a navy of 250,000 men and has invested heavily
in ships and hardware over the past decade............
China’s aircraft carrier programme will propel it into an
exclusive military club. The US currently has more than every other country
in the world combined, with 67 in total and 11 in service. UNQUOTE
This is rather depressing. Carriers are worth having for genuine overseas
problems as distinct from manufactured issues. The
Falklands
oil was nearly lost to us by Foreign Office
incompetence/idleness/treachery/treason [ delete to taste ]. Having a decent
defence set up is the answer. It does not mean having hundreds of
freeloading admirals, generals and air vice marshalls abusing expenses.
Three Britons Charged With €3 Million Carbon Emission Trading Fraud QUOTE
Belgian prosecutors highlighted the
massive losses faced by EU governments from VAT fraud
today after they
charged three Britons and a Dutchman with money-laundering following an
investigation into a multimillion-pound scam involving
carbon emissions
permits.
The three Britons, who were arrested last
month in Belgium, were accused of failing to pay VAT worth €3m (£2.7m) on a
series of carbon credit transactions. European authorities believe the EU
has lost at least €5bn to
carbon-trading VAT fraud
in the last 18 months. Europol, the EU's
law-­enforcement operation, fears the fraud will be used in other areas,
especially gas and electricity trading markets, after criminals found VAT
fraud was one of the most lucrative financial frauds. UNQUOTE
Carbon Emission Trading
is a humungous market set up by criminals
with their eyes firmly on the main chance and with unlimited greed. See -
Global Warming - A
Critique Of A $54 Trillion Boondoggle
on the point.
Propagandizing the environmental worriers was a major marketing operation.
The thieving is the pay off. Lots of the perpetrators are Jews. They are
always there when the fraud gets big time.
Cheney Paid $250 Million Bung To Beat Bribery Raps QUOTE
Former President George H.W. Bush and
ex-Secretary of State James Baker were part of a negotiating team that
convinced Nigerian government officials to drop bribery charges against Dick
Cheney and Halliburton, the oil services firm he led prior to becoming vice
president.........
As Truthout previously
reported , the charges revolve around $180 million in bribes executives
who worked for Halliburton's former subsidiary, Kellogg, Brown & Root (KBR)
paid to Nigerian government officials between 1994 and 2004 in exchange for
$6 billion in construction contracts for the Bonny Island natural gas
liquefaction plant. Nigeria is Africa's largest crude oil producer.
KBR, which also has handled lucrative US
government support contracts for US troops in Iraq and elsewhere, was spun
off from Halliburton in 2007 into a separate company. Nigerian officials had
also charged KBR in the bribery case. UNQUOTE Of course Cheney did not
buy the Nigerians off with his own money; that would have hurt. Big people
pay big bribes. Sometimes they get caught wrong but usually the ill gotten gains stay that
way.
Washington's Ten Most Corrupt Politicians 2010 QUOTE
The 2010 list,
in alphabetical order , includes:
Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) , [ Jew ]
Rahm Emanuel , Former Obama White House Chief of Staff, [ Jew ]
Senator John Ensign (R-NV) ,
Rep. Barney Frank (D-MA) , [ Jew ]
Rep. Jesse Jackson, Jr. (D-IL) , [ Black race hustler ]
President Barack Obama , [ Black, foreigner, illegal president ]
Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) ,
Rep. Charles Rangel (D-NY) , [ Zionist ]
Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY) , and
Rep. Maxine Waters
[ Black ] UNQUOTE This gives us three Jews, a
Zionist, three Blacks and two Americans which tells us something about what it
takes to get to the top in America these days. Clinton's old woman has not made
it since 2008.
Human Rights Watch
Accuses Israeli Criminals Of Illegitimate Discrimination Against Palestinians
QUOTE
“Israeli policies in the West Bank harshly discriminate against
Palestinian residents, depriving them of basic necessities while providing
lavish amenities for Jewish settlements,” Human Rights Watch ( HRW )
said in a report released Sunday. The 166-page report identifies practices
which HRW calls “discriminatory,” claiming, “they have no legitimate
security or other justification.”
The group calls on Israel to abide by its international legal obligation
to withdraw the settlements and to end the violations of Palestinians’
rights and on donor countries, particularly the United states and the
European Union, to avoid contributing to violations of international law
caused by the settlements.” UNQUOTE
Read for yourself and wonder whether Jews ever tell the truth. Some do but this
is not one of them. Of course if they were not abusing people there would
be no problem.
18 December 2010
Jews Stealing Oil From Palestinians QUOTE
Cyprus and Israel have signed an accord demarcating their
maritime borders to facilitate offshore gas exploration. Cyprus Foreign
Minister Markos Kyprianou and Israel's Infrastructure Minister Uzi Landau
signed the deal in Nicosia, the Mediterranean island's capital on Friday. Cyprus has similar agreements with Egypt and Lebanon.
The country has licensed U.S. firm Noble Energy to explore an area
bordering Israeli waters, where huge natural gas reserves have been
discovered under the seabed..... The law had been discussed for many years, but Israeli
plans to drill for gas in the Mediterranean alarmed Lebanon - which fears
Israel may be encroaching on its own reserves - and sent Lebanese
politicians scrambling to finally approve the law. UNQUOTE Some newspapers
tell some of the truth some of the time. This is not one of them. The Jews have
been starving people in Gaza when they were not murdering them. See
Gaza Massacre
for more on that. But
Haaretz
is
not saying that one major point of that massacre was to make sure the Jews got
the Gaza gas fields. See the next one for more and better details.
There are a few billion dollars there to be stolen.
Gaza Gas Murder and Robbery
The Gaza Massacre was not just about killing
Untermenschen
[ subhumans in Nazi terminology ]. It was even worse; that mass murder is not
just a vote buying gimmick. The major objective is stealing gas fields from
Gaza with the collusion of Tony Blair, the little swine who lied us into war
with Iraq.
Cheney Paid $250 Million Bung To Beat Bribery Raps QUOTE
Former President George H.W. Bush and ex-Secretary of State James Baker were
part of a negotiating team that convinced Nigerian government officials to drop
bribery charges against Dick Cheney and Halliburton, the oil services firm he
led prior to becoming vice president................
Earlier this week, Babafemi said Halliburton agreed during
negotiation talks to a "plea bargain" and to "pay $250 million in fines in lieu
of prosecution." He said the Nigerian government accepted the terms of the
settlement...........
As Truthout previously
reported , the charges revolve around $180 million in bribes executives who
worked for Halliburton's former subsidiary, Kellogg, Brown & Root (KBR) paid to
Nigerian government officials between 1994 and 2004 in exchange for $6 billion
in construction contracts for the Bonny Island natural gas liquefaction plant.
Nigeria is Africa's largest crude oil producer. KBR, which also has handled
lucrative US government support contracts for US troops in Iraq and elsewhere,
was spun off from Halliburton in 2007 into a separate company. Nigerian
officials had also charged KBR in the bribery case. UNQUOTE Of course
Cheney did not buy the Nigerians off with his own money. That would have hurt.
These big firms do what it takes. Once in a while things go sour but the big
fish walk away laughing. Only little people go to prison.
Ohio
Police Beat Up Woman And Strip Her Naked
QUOTE
Completely nude strip search of female forcefully conducted by male police
officers, against policy, and in Abu Ghraib torture style, in Stark County Ohio.
Women are strip searched fully nude, video-taped, and left naked for up to six
hours by the cops. UNQUOTE Sue for megabucks is one answer. Another and
better would be killing the attackers. Every American should be armed. So should
every Englishman. The police camera was turned off. They would doubtless claim
that this was not in order to
pervert the course of justice .
PS With better than 7 million views people are getting the message that police
are vicious, dangerous thugs and hardened liars.
Foul Mouthed Black Tried To Murder A Policeman
QUOTE
A man charged with the attempted murder of two police
officers was remanded in custody today after hurling abuse from the dock. Unemployed John Paul Onyenaychi, 30, is accused
of stabbing Pc Paul Madden, 23, and Piotr Dolata, 27, a police community
support officer (PCSO) on Wednesday.......... Onyenaychi, of east London, was also charged with
attempting to cause grievous bodily harm against a second PCSO, Steven
Constable. Surrounded in the dock by 10 police officers at Brent
Magistrates' Court, Onyenaychi refused to confirm his name, date of birth
and address before launching into an expletive-filled tirade. UNQUOTE Onyenaychi
will be Nigerian like as not. Notice that main stream media is keen to cover
up the fact that he is black. But then the main stream media is owned or
controlled by Jews intent on inflicting Third World scum like this on us. It
is
Ethnic
Fouling . They do it by controlling politicians through greed, bribery,
blackmail and
Western Guilt , the idea that we owe aforesaid
scum for running their lives and making Africa a better place.
Foreign Oik On The Run After Being Convicted Of Murder Threats QUOTE
A father is being hunted after being found guilty of
threatening to blow up the headteacher of a top girl's public school with a
grenade. Viraj Abeyratne, 50, also threatened to shoot Jayne
Triffitt - the head of Woldingham School in Surrey, which was attended by
Carey Mulligan. Abeyratne, whose daughter is a pupil at the £8,935-a-term
school, made the threats in a phone call to school nurse Jane De Groot in
June this year. The father, who is Sri Lankan and runs a fish export
business, is thought to have been drinking and fallen out with staff at the
exclusive school. UNQUOTE These vicious little oiks get into England
then carry on acting like Third World savages. Exporting a few million of them
would do us a power of good. It would get house prices down too.
Pakistani Woman Murders Her Four Year Old Daughter As She Listens To The Koran QUOTE A mother has been arrested after a four year old girl was found stabbed to
death with her heart and other organs cut out and strewn around her flat. Muslim mother Shayna Bharuchi, 35, was allegedly sitting in a her
kitchen chanting verses of the Koran as her daughter Nusayba's disembowelled
corpse lay next to her. The little girl's heart and other organs were found in different rooms
around the flat in Clapton, east London. Police suspect she
carried out the killing as a religious offering as
she listened to the Muslim holy book on an MP3 player at full volume. UNQUOTE
Her Majesty's Government
imports
millions of them, claiming that they are cheap labour. They lie.
Her Majesty's Allegedly Loyal Opposition
imported them to buy votes and
destroy England. They are vicious and traitors all.
Jew Charged With Incest With His Daughter
QUOTE
A Columbia University professor accused of a three-year
sexual relationship with his daughter was charged with incest yesterday. Political science professor David Epstein, 46,
allegedly bedded his 24-year-old daughter between 2006 and 2009. Epstein, who specialises in American politics and voting
rights, is said to have also exchanged twisted text messages with the girl
during the consensual relationship...... Epstein faces up to four years behind bars if convicted. UNQUOTE
Epstein is a Jew [ probability > 99% ]. Consensual incest does not sound like
major crime but it causes major problems. It is how
Village idiots
are
created.
Jew Stealing Gold From A Jew QUOTE
A WIFE yesterday won a £2.4million
divorce payout after accusing her ex-husband of hiding assets, including
three solid gold bars, to disguise the true extent of his wealth. Multi-millionaire businessman Peter
Brandon, 67, says he will be left “impoverished” by the Appeal Court
ruling while his former wife Christina continues to live in luxury in
their mansion home. Christina, 62, had claimed the gold ingots – worth
£62,000 – disappeared from their house on the day Mr Brandon walked out
and that he had hidden them in a secret fund.............. He denied he had a
secret fund hidden from the court, insisting he had been left with just £2,000 a
month to live on and that the whole of his wealth was £2million.
UNQUOTE Jews both and liars both is a safe assumption. Ask how they got
rich in the first place or even why Adolf did not like them. You will not get an
honest answer either way.
17 December 2010
Parliament Of Thieves Is Still Robbing Us QUOTE
EXPENSES sleaze returned to
Westminster last night after the Government’s auditor refused to approve
House of Commons accounts because of unverified claims worth nearly
£14million. In an embarrassing verdict the
National Audit Office found Parliamentary authorities were unable to
provide receipts to back up claims amounting to £2.6million. A further £11.3million was spent by MPs – with no
evidence that it was used for Parliamentary business.
The Commons accounts for last year, published
yesterday, suggest that MPs continued to abuse the allowance system at the
height of public anger over the expenses scandal. Insiders suspect that many MPs who left Parliament at
the last election did their utmost to squeeze more cash out of the system
in their final months on the gravy train.........
Yet, despite the vast sums, Commons authorities
were only taking action to recover a total of £33,794. UNQUOTE Company
directors trying it on like this would go to prison. But when the Commons
authorities and the DPP owe their
jobs to the swine it is different.
European
Nationalists Pander To Jews - Jews Laugh Up Their Sleeves QUOTE
Oy Europe! Its official arm, brave and mighty, was extended
to us in the form of the dozens of firefighters and firefighting aircraft
dispatched to battle the Carmel blaze. Its other arm - the outcast,
disobedient one - came to ignite fires whose damages cannot be predicted.
These took the form of the very unholy alliance between figures on
Israel's right and extreme nationalists and even anti-Semites in Europe
that is gaining momentum in the Holy Land.
The first of the pyromaniacs, the Dutch MP
Geert Wilders
- almost a
permanent guest in Israel - was invited by MK Aryeh Eldad (National Union
) to persuade us that Jordan is Palestine......... Another European expert in starting fires is the Belgian
politician
Filip
Dewinter , who was invited to attend another conference
held here as well, this one initiated by former Yisrael Beiteinu MK
Eliezer Cohen.
UNQUOTE Colluding with the enemy is a dubious proposition at best.
Treachery and political manipulation are what
Jews prefer. Using
others to do their dirty work is so much more efficient. That is why they
used the American army to invade
Iraq
and steal oil for them.
Havildar Lachhiman Gurung VC QUOTE
Havildar [ Sergeant ] Lachhiman Gurung, who died on December 12 aged 92,
won the Victoria Cross while serving with the Gurkha Rifles in Burma in 1945;
in recent years he had been a prominent figure in the campaign led by the
actress Joanna Lumley to allow former Gurkhas to settle in Britain..........
When the Japanese arrived, the two Gurkha companies were
surrounded and their lines of communication cut. On the night of May 12,
Rifleman Gurung was manning the forward post of his platoon almost 100
yards ahead of the main company. At 1.20am, more than 200 Japanese attacked the company
position. The brunt of the assault fell on Gurung’s section and, in
particular, on his post, which dominated a jungle track leading up to
his platoon’s position. Had the enemy been able to overrun it and occupy
Gurung’s trench, they would have secured control over the whole of the
field before them.........
The following morning, of the 87 enemy dead found in
the company’s immediate locality, 31 lay in front of Gurung’s section.
The Japanese made repeated attempts to break through, but the 4th/8th
held out until May 15, when they were relieved.
UNQUOTE His VC was hard earned. The Army takes the best years of a man's
life then throws him out into the street while scum like the next one are
featherbedded by corrupt politicians.
Illegal Immigrant Who Killed A Girl Of 12 Gets Asylum Because He Has Human
Rights
QUOTE
A failed asylum seeker who left a 12-year-old girl dying
under the wheels of his car while banned from driving will be allowed to
remain in the UK, judges ruled today. Aso Mohammed Ibrahim, 33, an Iraqi Kurd, was jailed for
four months over the 2003 crash which cost Amy Houston her life. Her father, Paul Houston, 41, begged judges at a recent
deportation hearing to bring 'my seven years of hell to an end' by sending
Ibrahim back to Iraq. Today two senior immigration judges rejected a final
appeal by the UK Border Agency to have him deported. Ibrahim will now be
allowed to live in the UK permanently. The UK Border Agency said they were 'extremely
disappointed' with the decision - and that Ibrahim should have been removed. The Upper Tribunal of the Immigration and Asylum Chamber
sitting in Manchester also heard Ibrahim, given leave to remain in the UK,
had a string of criminal convictions. UNQUOTE
You don't have to believe
that
Her Majesty's Government
is a gang of
traitors or that
Her Majesty's Allegedly Loyal Opposition
is even worse. We not need honest
politicians not the pack of light fingered rogues in Parliament stealing our
money. We should ask who inflicted the
Human Rights
Act 1998
on us and why.
Cameron Says We Have Not Done Enough To Stop Islamic Extremists
- NB Hanging
works every time.
QUOTE Britain admitted lapses in its attempts to tackle Islamist militancy on
Wednesday after an attack in Sweden by a U.K.-educated bomber revived old
charges the country is overly tolerant of the threat. Britain became a hub of Islamist activity in the 1990s thanks to a
tradition of granting asylum to Middle East dissidents, but after Sept 11.
cracked down on what many
believed had become a dangerously radical militant scene.
The attack in Stockholm on Saturday by Taymour Abdulwahab, a Swede of
Middle Eastern origin who had studied in Britain, has reheated accusations
that the country is soft on militancy, particularly in its universities........
Andy Hayman, formerly Britain's most senior counter-terrorism officer,
said the amount of information flowing to police from Britain's Muslim
minority remained scant despite large sums spent on efforts to identify
young men most vulnerable to recruitment by al-Qaida-aligned groups.
Britain has about 1.8 million Muslims, mainly of Pakistani descent, and
the security services say that nearly all major terrorism plots since
2001, including the 2005 London bombings which killed 52 people, were
linked to Pakistan.
UNQUOTE Cameron speaks with forked tongue.
Cameron imports them. Cameron can deport them. He is helping Islamic thugs
destroy civilization. The man is a fool, rogue and traitor in some
combination.
16 December 2010
Sweden Keeps WikiLeaks Man In Prison
QUOTE The high court will hold a hearing tomorrow on a Swedish
appeal against bail for
Julian Assange , the founder of
WikiLeaks . The 39-year-old Australian, who is wanted for questioning in
Sweden
over alleged sex crimes,
was granted £200,000 bail yesterday
but the Swedish authorities challenged
the decision. Assange's supporters fear that should he be
extradited to Sweden, he could eventually be sent to the US. Last night the
Swedish prosecutor, Marianne Ny,
issued a statement
that
Sweden would be unable to extradite Assange to the US without the consent of the
UK – "the surrendering country". UNQUOTE
Political Prisoner One
is being
held on
Airstrip One . Demanding £240 thousand bail is an abuse of process, just like
the Swedes with their malicious rape stories. Pandering to America means
pandering to evil.
Mohammed Brand Condoms -
What Every Goat Lover Needs
QUOTE
Difference﻿ is
we don't cut heads off for such nonsense, fact is we see it as humour.
Where's yours? No wonder ppl hate Muslims, stone age motherxxxxing
zealot cxxxx.
Mohammed was 55 when﻿ he married Aiesha just 6 what a
perv.
UNQUOTE The standard of literacy on YouTube leaves something to
be desired. This one has a mere 70,000 views so far but try the next one.
Banned
Trojan Condom Commercial
Is only banned by Fox and CBS. With 1.6 million views it must
have something going for it, apart from bad taste that is.
Zuma Rides Again
During his rape trial, ex-Deputy President Jacob Zuma said he took a shower
after having sex with a woman he knew was HIV positive because he claimed it
would cut the Aids risk.
Clegg Making It Easier
For Illegal Immigrants QUOTE
FAILED
asylum seekers could avoid being kicked out of the UK under moves today to
spare children from deportation centres. Fears that Britain will be seen as a
soft touch for asylum seekers were ignited by the new “family friendly”
system being announced by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg.......... In another move, the Home Office will no longer deal
with failed asylum seeker families. Instead, independent experts will rule
on cases, with the process administered by charities. UNQUOTE Using
charities will make it easy for subversives to help criminals to stay in
England, getting away with defrauding us. That of course is the point.
Killer On The Run Carves Up Two Police QUOTE
Two policemen were stabbed by a killer on the run yesterday after they
stopped him about an unpaid £1.20 bus fare......... The man, who was being held by police last night, had been convicted of
causing death by dangerous driving and was supposed to return to prison
after apparently breaching parole conditions.........  ‘There was a large
group of PCSOs, police and Transport for London staff. They were checking
people coming off a bus. Five or six police officers suddenly jumped on a
guy......... ‘When the guy was on the ground the police were stamping on his hand so
he’d let go of the knife. The guy on the ground was struggling a lot but
they managed to tie his hands and legs together and put him in a police
van.
UNQUOTE The police had their fun, giving him a good kicking.
He only got two of them. Notice that the main stream media do not bother
to tell us what colour he is, not even in the small print. Suppressing the
truth is media corruption as normal. But the
New Nation News
does tell it like it is - for example:-
Ghana-born principal repeatedly raped African student while
threatening her with deportation
Black with
African name jailed for raping woman in her own home
'Rape' victim 'helped cops catch black predator by luring him in for a
date hours after attack'
International Football - Sponsor threaten club over rape charge
against Liberian
UK: Race watch on all playground fights: Schools warned after
horror attack on white boy
First ethnic statistics ever published in France reveal 54% of
babies born in Paris are Black
Chinese woman raped by thick-lipped dreadlocked darkie
UK: Muslim Gang Rapes Man in Manchester Centre
Norway Pays Bitter Price for Mass Third World Immigration
UK: image of black rapist with 'afro' released
UK: Bogus black forensic scientist jailed for child rape
Black African migrant blames Satan for his rape of Scottish woman
I was savagely disfigured by my deranged (Negro) boyfriend by
acid attack
UK whites will be minority by 2100 - in London by 2010
The
Camp of the Saints by Michael Gilson De Lemos
Black rape counsellor charged with rape
Kosovo Prime Minister Killed Prisoners For Their Kidneys
QUOTE
But yesterday Kosovo’s prime minister was
sensationally named as the boss of a brutal mafia network that allegedly
specialised in butchering enemies for their kidneys. He strongly denies the allegations. In a bombshell report Hashim Thaci was
described as ‘the most dangerous’ of organised crime leaders who engaged in
assassinations, beatings, drug smuggling and a weapons racket. Most macabre are testimonies alleging how
his mafia network harvested human organs from kidnapped prisoners, who
pleaded not to be ‘chopped into pieces’ before they were shot dead by
henchmen. Their kidneys and other organs were
removed and sold in a deal with an Albanian clinic.......
Yesterday the allegations against Mr
Thaci – pictured many times alongside Mr Blair – were laid bare in a
devastating Council of Europe report. Damningly, the report accuses Western
governments of complicity, saying European leaders knew about, but chose to
ignore, Thaci’s alleged brutality. UNQUOTE To be fair about the man,
he delivered a quality product fresh and warm. Keeping them until they are
needed is the way to go. Being a friend of Blair means he is not fussy. Blair
has killed far more than Mr
Thaçi .
Israel
Involved In Kosovo Organ Trade QUOTE
Jonathan Ratel, who serves in Kosovo as part of
the EU's rule of law mission, has announced that the seven suspected Kosovons
working as physicians for a clinic called Medicus in the capital, Pristina,
belong to an international network that trades in the organs of people suffering
from extreme poverty, the Associated Press reported. The donors were from
Moldova, Kazakhstan, Russia and Turkey and were enticed with the false promise
of payments as much as 20 thousand dollars. However, they never got any money.
There are also charges pressed against an Israeli individual and a Turkish
doctor who have not been arrested yet.
The organs were illegally removed from the
victims and transplanted into rich recipients most of whom were from Israel,
Canada, Germany and Poland. UNQUOTE Israel is involved but you
would not know it from reading the main stream media in Europe, the media
controlled by Jews that is. That is rather the point of taking over the media, the
education industry, government and so on. Manipulating countries is so much
easier when it is done from the top down. The technique was worked out by
Antonio Gramsci , the leading theoretician of
the communist party in Italy. The
BBC
is at the forefront of the propaganda.
Marketing
Homosexuality
is a very personal interest for
them. Jews like illegal trading because the profit margins are so much higher
and, of course tax free.
Two Fools Come Unstuck Fighting For Al Qaeda
QUOTE
Two white British men who were fighting alongside Al Qaeda
militants in Pakistan have been killed in a drone attack, it was reported
last night. One of the men was identified by Taliban sources
as 25-year-old Gerry Smith, whose Islamic name is Mansoor Ahmed, according
to the officials. The second was only identified as Stephen, 48, but also
goes by Abu Bakar. The men died five days ago when a Hellfire missile was
discharged from a remote-controlled American drone in the town of Datta Khel,
in North Waziristan. If the reports are confirmed, the two men would be the
first white British converts to have been killed. UNQUOTE Stupidity is
liable to fatal even for Englishmen. They might even qualify for
Darwin Awards
by removing
themselves from the gene pool. They will know that the
72 virgin story
is tosh.
15 December 2010
.. you know frankly, going to war without France
is like going deer hunting without an accordion.
You just leave a lot
of useless noisy baggage behind."
General Norman Schwarzkopf allegedly
Quote of the Day
Blair Taking Mug Punter For £27 Million Ride
QUOTE
Tony Blair’s company stands to earn £27million for
advising the oil-rich Kuwaiti government, it was claimed last night. The former prime minister’s consultancy firm has been
­advising the Gulf monarchy how to govern itself. Such a payout would indicate that estimates of Mr
Blair’s earnings since he left Downing Street – ­usually put in the
£20million to £40million range – could be well below the mark. Kuwaiti sources familiar with the deal say Mr Blair’s
firm stands to earn more than 12million dinars, the equivalent of
£27million......... During his visits to Kuwait, it is claimed Mr Blair and
his wife Cherie have used – for free – the £2,000-a-night Royal Suite at
the Sheraton Hotel. UNQUOTE His old woman is a grasping cow
and ugly as sin. See for yourself at
Cherie Blair
Competition Entries
Nick Griffin And The Missing £134,000 QUOTE A supporter of the British
National Party, Edward Alderson, of Bradford in West Yorkshire sadly died on
31st January 2010. He had decided to leave the British National Party a [
very handsome
] sum in his will.
To the British National Party he left the balance in the estate up to the
inheritance tax threshold after the two above bequests have been deducted.......... This
means that the British National Party should have received £199,000. That is
£350,000 less £1,000 and £150,000.
The money would have been received by the British National
Party after 16th August, when probate was granted. The sum would have then to be
declared to the Electoral Commission as a donation in the third quarterly return
(i.e. as having been received between 1st July and 30th September). However the
sum declared is only £65,000...
What happened to
the other £134,000? UNQUOTE Obvious possibilities are incompetent accounting,
error of fact and theft. Given Griffo's track record I am not disposed to give
him the benefit of the doubt. He can always sue for libel if he thinks he can
get away with it. He is not the only chancer on the make. Nor is Blair for that
matter. Politics are run by racketeers for racketeers.
Dozens Of Thieves Die Trying To Rob The Australian Tax Payer QUOTE
Dozens of people are feared dead after a
wooden boat packed with asylum seekers was wrecked as it reached
Australia 's Christmas Island territory in heavy seas. The boat, thought to have been carrying
about 70 people including women and children, broke apart as waves drove it
on to a rocky stretch of shoreline on the island 930 miles off the coast of
Western Australia.
The boat is thought to have come from
Indonesia carrying
refugees
from Iraq and Iran, and to have been heading for the main
Australian offshore immigration detention centre, a favoured destination of
would-be refugees....
Nearly 130 boats have arrived this year, many carrying
refugees from Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan. Many asylum seekers make their way
to Indonesia before travelling by boat to Australia. UNQUOTE The Labor
[ sic ] Party have incited these chancers. Genuine refugees as distinct from
this lot have to find refuge in the first safe place they get to. Afghans
are thieving. Iranians ditto. Iraqis too. Of course in Iraq they are on the
run from American terrorists using gun ships and F16s. Watch
Collateral Murder , the official American film of Americans murdering unarmed
Iraqis. S ee what fun it is to kill unarmed
civilians.
PS See what these comedians do if they are allowed to get away with it in
the next one.
60 Victims of Muslim Paedophile Gangs Are In Shropshire QUOTE
There
are at least 60 victims, all young white females, of Muslim paedophile gangs
operating in Shropshire, centred around Telford, a mother of one of the
girls interviewed in connection with an attack has told the British National
Party.
The
hidden epidemic in Shropshire has effectively been covered up by the
national media, and only occasional reports have made it into the local
county press,” said Phil Spencer, south Shropshire organiser.
“The
information about the number of victims came from a response to a new
leafleting campaign the British National Party has been conducting in
Telford warning of the dangers which the local population face,” Mr Spencer
said........
“I
was told by the C.I.D that there have been at least 60 victims of this crime
just in Shropshire alone,” she said. UNQUOTE The main stream
media conceal the truth as a matter of course. Local comics are less to prone to
this form of corruption.
England Is
Being Colonised By Third World Deadbeats QUOTE
The
Third World colonisation of Britain has continued apace despite ConDem
promises to “slow immigration” with Muslims now outnumbering Christians in
Bradford by seven to one and more than 40 percent of school pupils in London
speaking English as a second language. An announcement by the Church of
England that it is to abolish the historic Diocese in Bradford because more
than 70 percent of the residents are Muslims, illustrates the extent of the
crisis [
It has not yet but the C of E is firmly on the skids - Editor
].........
Meanwhile, a new report from the Institute of Education and the National
Centre for Languages (CILT) has revealed that English is a second language for
40 percent of school pupils in London..........
In
Tower Hamlets almost 75 per cent of schoolchildren speak English as a second
language.....
Britain stands on the brink of being overwhelmed and only the British
National Party stands against our nation’s utter destruction [ or would if
Nick Griffin were not running it - Ed. ]. UNQUOTE The
British National
Party
is right. The two and a quarter main parties are run by traitors
who hate England. Who are aforesaid traitors? Here are three clues.
Conservative
Friends of Israel
Labour
Friends of Israel
Liberal
Democrat Friends of Israel
PS The Labour Party is run by the grandson of an illegal immigrant, traitor,
mass murderer and Jew.
Zuma Screws Lady Justice - Zuma Sues For Libel
QUOTE A cartoonist by the name of John
Shapiro is being sued for a cartoon in which the leader of South Africa’s
ruling party, Jacob Zuma, was seen about to about to rape lady justice. UNQUOTE
Fair comment? I would have thought so. Beating all
783 corruption charges
as well as the rape rap suggests lots of luck or
friends in high places such as the
South African Communist Party
and
ANC
which was run
by
Nelson
Mandela
aka Saint Nelson.
Israel
Deported 150 Illegal Sudanese Migrants
QUOTE 150 asylum seekers were sent back to Sudan, on Monday night, as Israeli
officials believed they entered the country illegally in search of work, media
agencies reported on Tuesday. Sudanese migrants, one third of whom reportedly minors, were
repatriated on Monday night from Israel, and were returning home via a third
country, according to anonymous official sources..............
The migrant advocates reacted to Israel's move saying they hardly believed the
deportees left willingly, as people had no other place to live or work, and
feared they would be sent to jail if they rejected the government's offer..........
The Israeli government recently intensified efforts to prevent African migrants
from entering illegally into the country, estimating more than 30,000 people,
from Sudan, Eritrea and other countries, have infiltrated in the past five years
via its southern border with Egypt.
UNQUOTE Jews can get rid of illegal
immigrants with anyone whining about racism. So could Cameron if he wanted.