The Dark Knight Rises | Azn Badger's Blog
Azn Badger's Blog
What About the Lysine Contingency…?
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
December 20, 2011 • 8:54 PM
2
Thoughts On The Dark Knight Rises Trailer
It’s funny, when it comes to movies, I’m actually not that hard to impress.
While I consider myself well-versed in the world of film, at the end of the day all it really takes to peak my interest, is:
A): A decent cast.
B): A decent concept.
and C): The promise of people punching one another at some point in the movie.
In some cases that last one, if represented well enough, is the
only
excuse I need to see a movie, regardless of how dumb or crappy it is.
I rented the shit-fest that was
Unknown
purely in the hopes of seeing a handful of
Liam Neeson
related beat downs.
I saw
Fast Five
solely
for the purpose of seeing
Vin Diesel
and
The Rock
(not Dwayne) bro-out and put each other through particle board walls.
Pictured: Either The Rock is about to get suplexed, or Vin Diesel's in the process of getting Speared. I honestly can't tell...
And when it comes to
The Dark Knight Rises , as utterly incalculable as the build-up has, and will
continue
to be for the next 6 months or so, at the end of the day I will see it because it, unlike any other movie in film history; will deliver the long anticipated spectacle of
Batman
and
Bane  duking it out on the big screen.
That these 2 titans of comics are to be portrayed by capable actors such as
Christian Bale
and
Tom Hardy
respectively, is merely the icing on the cake.
I find this funny. Does that make me less of a man?
Christopher Nolan’s
track record when it comes to cinematography and fight choreography suggests that the ensuing bout will be clumsy and edited through a meat grinder, but even so, I’ve been waiting to see this fight brought to life on the silver screen since I was 6 years old; and crappy or not, I will not be denied.
That being said, Batman and Bane grudge match aside, what did I think of the new trailer for The Dark Knight Rises?
Well, to answer your question, I felt it was quite good by most standards, but much too enigmatic and fractured in it’s presentation to pack the same visceral punch that the later trailers for
The Dark Knight
did.
Here’s a refresher in case you need it:
I’d prefer not to compare the 2, as it’s obvious the people cutting the trailers for these movies came at it from very different tonal and thematic standpoints; but I feel it needs to be said that, to me, The Dark Knight really did have some of the
best
trailers of all time.
Everything, from the shot selection, to the music cues, to the overall pacing of the trailers for The Dark Knight was absolutely spot on.
What’s more, thanks to the dialogue-heavy nature of the trailers, as well as his untimely death, an absurd amount of buzz was generated for
Heath Ledger’s
portrayal of
The Joker , (*Sigh* “Why So Serious?”) not to mention the overall plot of the film was made crystal clear.
Though it sounds silly in this cynical age of ours, in many ways I feel the catchphrases and buzzwords of The Dark Knight actually served to make it’s advertising campaign both effective and memorable on the whole.
The trailer for The Dark Knight Rises has a lot of neat shots in it, promising quite a few interesting set piece moments, however, perhaps due to the lack of dialogue, many of these shots are difficult to interpret from a purely visual standpoint.
Early on we see the reflection of a man with a cane approaching a shiny dinner platter while
Alfred
drones on about the Wayne dynasty:
Pictured: I have no fucking clue. Maybe a Ra's Al Ghul flashback?
At some point we see someone stumble onto the set of
Kenneth Branagh’s
Hamlet :
Pictures: Ballrooms + Flower Petals = Hamelt. It's science.
Later, we see a bearded Bruce Wayne wandering around what appears to be the prison equivalent to
Discovery Zone :
I know it's probably supposed to be a prison, but honestly, I kind of wanna' play on it...
There’s
that French lady
from
Inception  n’shit.
A FOOTBALL FIELD was just DESTROYED! WHY ARE YOU SMILING!?
There’s
Joseph Gordon-Levitt .
Pictured: Joseph Gordon "Still Not Sure Where To Put The Hyphen" Levitt.
There’s
A SHIT TON
of rappeling.
The Dark Knight Rises: A Story of Men On Ropes.
And then we have
Anne Hathaway
as a mean lady that may or may not be
Catwoman .
Seriously, if you take into account the fact that maybe,
just maybe , the people viewing this trailer haven’t been blogging about every step of the script writing process, or staring at leaked production photos for the past several months, (oddly enough, not me!) then this trailer basically offers no hint as to her role being that of Selina Kyle.
Oh wait excuse me, she’s wearing a mask at a masquerade ball that, if you look
really
hard, has
cat ears :
Direct quote: "WHOOOOOOOO!!!!!!"
Sarcasm deployed, mystery solved.
Much like
Aaron Eckhart’s
Two-Face , unless you’ve been following the production or are familiar with the Batman universe, chances are you’d never know Anne Hathaway was supposed to be Catwoman in this trailer.
Indeed, I’m curious to know what this trailer meant to people who
aren’t
familiar with Batman outside of the movies.
In many ways, when I watch this trailer, I feel my perception is skewed by the fact that I already have an attachment to and understanding of many of the characters based on their comic book equivalent.
When I think “Bane,” I already have an image in mind of what I expect from him.
When I hear Tom Hardy speaking through his mask I say to myself:
"I can see how people could find that hard to understand, but goddamnit that sounds like Bane!"
When I see scenes from the trailer like the prison break, I think to myself:
"Nice. That looks straight out of Knightfall!"
To the average Batman virgin however, I’d imagine imagery such as this would be provocative, but purely in a “oh, so that’s gonna’ happen at some point” kind of way.
Hell, I’m willing to bet the average Bat Virgin doesn’t have the slightest clue as to
who
or
what
Bane even is.
What I think I’m trying to say, is that the style of editing and presentation of this trailer is enticing, as anything with a budget and pretty pictures can manage to be, but at the same time I feel frustrated by the numerous vagaries it throws in my lap.
As you can probably tell, I’m not a fan of the
J.J. Abrams -style marketing.
It’s not that I prefer my trailers to spell their plots and structure out to me, I simply value coherence and context over sound cues and pretty pictures.
Much like all of Christopher Nolan’s blockbusters, The Dark Knight Rises appears to be an audio-visual powerhouse, though in some ways it appears a little less so at this point.
The set pieces looks suitably big, but the color palette appears more gray-ish and natural than The Dark Knight and
Batman Begins , and curiously enough, despite it being an almost comical trademark of his, there’s not a single (gorgeous) overhead shot of a cityscape.
Instead he decided to pull a 180 and do an INVERTED overhead shot for the poster!
That last part troubles me, as I’m a big fan of Nolan’s wide open establishing shots, particularly in outdoor scenes, and though it may just be the editor’s doing; there are none to be found in this trailer.
Perhaps the strangest thing though, at least to me, is the fact that they re-used the mood building drone AKA The Joker’s theme from The Dark Knight in this trailer.
I always thought of that particular piece of music as “belonging” to The Joker, which made it somewhat puzzling to hear played over a trailer for a film that, almost certainly; won’t feature him.
Despite everything I’ve said about this trailer, both good and bad, at the end of the day it’s a very good piece of advertising for a sequel that, unfortunately, benefitted from some of the best advertising and pre-release buzz in recent memory.
Not only that, it’s only the
first
trailer, for a huge movie that isn’t dropping until late in the summer.
As good as the advertising for The Dark Knight was from the get go, the 2nd trailers for it,
Iron Man , and Inception were all
MONUMENTALLY
better than the first, which leads me to believe the same will likely be the case with The Dark Knight Rises.
In addition to this, one also has to consider the fact that virtually all of Christopher Nolan’s blockbusters up to this point, while heavily advertised, also did well to avoid showing a great deal of the major story beats and action set pieces.
I mean hell, neither the teaser nor the trailer saw any mention of
Morgan Freeman’s
Lucius Fox , nor any of stuff from the prologue sequence that made the rounds through theaters last week.
I don’t know about you, but up until it’s release I really thought the “truck flip” from The Dark Knight trailer was going to be the climax of the movie.
Instead, the entire skyscraper based finale of the movie ended up playing that role, while never once being hinted at in the trailers.
I guess what I’m trying to say, is that though I may seem overly critical, in truth I’m just a fanboy hoping for the best.
In the meantime though, as weird as it seems, I think I actually liked the almost universally panned
teaser
for The Dark Knight Rises somewhat better than the trailer.
True, most of the footage was borrowed from Batman Begins.
True,
Commissioner Gordon’s
dialogue was hard to understand.
True, virtually nothing Commissioner Gordon had to say was even
worth
hearing in the first place.
BUT , at the very end of the teaser, there is a single, barely 2 second shot that made it all worth it:
Pictured: All I needed to see.
Batman in the rain, taking a deep breath, while Bane slowly approaches from the foreground.
The whole thing was crap up until then, but that last shot instantly sold me.
The trailer, while bigger and much more coherent, didn’t have this shot or even a suitable equivalent.
True, it featured a few shots of Batman and Bane throwing down in the snow, however I felt the subtlety and dramatic implication of the teaser shot did more to appease the fanboy in me than the entirety of the full trailer.
That’s just me though.
Do I ever need a reason to post this? Didn't think so...
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Aaron Eckhart ,
Alfred ,
Anne Hathaway ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Batman Begins ,
Catwoman ,
Christian Bale ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
Fast Five ,
fight ,
film ,
Heath Ledger ,
Inception ,
Iron Man ,
JJ Abrams ,
Joseph Gordon-Levitt ,
Knightfall ,
Liam Neeson ,
Lucius Fox ,
Marion Cotillard ,
Marvel ,
Morgan Freeman ,
movie ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Joker ,
The Rock ,
Tom Hardy ,
trailer ,
Two-Face ,
Unknown ,
Vin Diesel
November 29, 2011 • 7:41 PM
3
The Amazing Spider-Man Just Went From “Meh” To “Bleh.”
Pictured: The kind of shit I'd probably do if I had a Spider-Man costume.
*SPOILER ALERT!* If you prefer not to have the appearance of The Lizard from The Amazing-Spider-Man spoiled for you, stop reading NOW! *SPOILER ALERT!*
As goofy as the photos above may be, sadly, they aren’t responsible for my rapidly darkening mood in regards to the upcoming
Amazing Spider-Man movie .
It’s funny actually, despite being a reboot of a major Marvel franchise, amid all the buzz surrounding
The Avengers ,
Man of Steel , and
The Dark Knight Rises , the production of The Amazing Spider-Man has been somewhat of an enigma as of late.
Unlike fuckin’
Turn Off the Dark …
*Shiver*
Spider-Man
villains putting on a fashion show… The stuff of nightmares I tells yah’.
Truth be told, aside from the infamous
“Mirrors Edge trailer,”
and a
quick article I did a few months back regarding the new costume design , The Amazing Spider-Man has been almost entirely off my radar.
Sure, I grit my teeth a little over the prospect of rebooting a
barely 10 year old film series , however outside of that, I really could care less.
I lied. Officially, I care less about Ghost Rider. Don't tell anyone I said that though.
That being said, the one thing that
could’ve
got me excited about this movie, has just been
ruined  by a leaked image of a goddamn
Pez
dispenser.
Allow me to explain.
In my youth, animals were one of my greatest passions, in particular lizards and other reptiles.
At one point the Komodo Dragon was my favorite animal, prompting me to do a number of school projects based around them.
I used to flip through my (vast) collection of
Zoobooks
just about every fucking day, in particular the reptile and special edition dinosaur issues.
Godzilla
was, and still is, one of my biggest heroes.
And when it came to comic book characters, in particular Spider-Man villains, you can sure as hell bet
The Lizard
was my favorite.
BAAAAADDDD-ASSSSSSSSSSS.
In truth, he was kind of a lame character, particularly in regards to his power set, but even so, I’ve always liked him regardless.
That being said, seeing
Dylan Baker
cast as Dr. Curt Connors (The Lizard, dumbass) in
Spider-Man 2
and
3
was
cute
in the sense that it paid homage to the greater
Marvel universe , (something that has since become widespread) however I’m not gonna’ lie, it sucked some serious balls being teased with the prospect of a Lizard story arc over 2 movies only to end up with the lame-ass, cluttered finale of Spider-Man 3.
Imagine my surprise when it was announced that The Lizard was going to be a/the(?) villain in The Amazing Spider-Man.
Being a Lizard fan, my initial reaction was that of:
“Fuck yeah!”
Despite boasting some decent acting credentials, I still think it’s funny that Welshman
Rhys Ifans
AKA the Welsh guy from
Little Nicky
and the Welsh kicker from
The Replacements , is going to be playing Curt Connors.
By the way, did I mention he was Welsh?
Seriously though, I really don’t have much of a frame of reference as to whether he’d make a good Lizard, but oddly enough, it’s not
him
that has me less than thrilled about The Amazing Spider-Man.
Which brings us back to the aforementioned Pez dispenser:
Pictured: An unfortunate shaved monkey dipped in green paint.
While it may not be an
official
rendering of the character’s design for the upcoming film, or even a reflection of what the character’s
final
appearance, given the possibility that his transformation in the film may in fact be done progressively instead of all at once; the fact of the matter is:
This looks like fuckin’ garbage.
Seriously man, aside from the green skin, the features of the character don’t even look reptilian to me.
Last time I checked, reptiles, lizards in particular, are noted for their rigid facial structure and beady eyes.
This fuckin’ lizard has his eyes on the front of his face, and doesn’t even have so much as a goddamn snout.
I know they were probably trying to humanize him for dramatic purposes, or more likely, made him more human shaped to make animating his lip movements somewhat easier, but even so; this ain’t the fuckin’ Lizard.
Jesus fuck man, even if you were to put all of my “science-y” gripes aside, at the end of the day this design looks just plain fuckin’
boring .
Probably the worst part though, is the fact that this thing bears an uncanny resemblance to the
Goombas
from the
Super Mario movie :
Cosmic...
And we all know how well
that  little venture worked out, right?
To whoever designed this Austrian dispenser of confectionery  FAIL , congratulations, you have succeeded in making a superhuman lizard-man look boring.
My guess is they recruited the guy that did the Time Ninja cover to do the concept art for The Lizard:
Just in case you forgot...
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2 ,
3 ,
Comics ,
Dylan Baker ,
Ghost Rider ,
Goomba ,
Little Nicky ,
Man of Steel ,
Marvel ,
Movies ,
Rhys Ifans ,
Spider-Man ,
Spirit of Vengeance ,
Super Mario Bros. ,
The Amazing Spider-Man ,
The Avengers ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Lizard ,
The Replacements ,
Turn Off the Dark
August 13, 2011 • 10:44 PM
3
The Return Of The Dark Avengers
( Image courtesy
IGN.com )
Awhile back I was fortunate to have had the opportunity to
compose a guest review for a comic
over at the excellent review blog,
Collected Editions .
As a frequent reader there, I was aware that the chief writer there covered
DC comics
almost exclusively, however I myself was told that I would have free reign in choosing which comic I’d like to review, regardless of the publisher.
That being said, of all the comics I had read recently; I chose to review the first trade of the flagship title under
Marvel’s
Dark Reign
banner,
The Dark Avengers .
The Dark Avengers doing their best "SUCK MY DICK" poses.
Brian Michael Bendis
has never been my favorite writer, but his trademark colorful dialogue, combined with a strong cast and
Mike Deodato’s
always stellar pencil work, made for an irresistible combination in my book.
For whatever reason, the idea of a superhero team composed of known supervillains has always “done it” for me.
Perhaps it also has something to do with the brilliance of writers like
Gail Simone
and
Warren Ellis , but for what it’s worth;
Secret Six
and
Thunderbolts
have consistently been 2 of my favorite books over the past half decade.
Pictured: One of many reasons Secret Six deserves your money.
Anyway, as tends to happen with books that emerge from high-profile events, Dark Avengers came to an unfortunate end when the status quo was once again shifted following the events of
Siege .
Norman Osborn , the team’s leader; was shipped off to prison.
The Sentry
was (supposedly) destroyed.
Daken
escaped to his own self-titled book.
And the rest of the team was either imprisoned, killed, or booted onto the Thunderbolts.
While I knew Dark Avengers wouldn’t last long, given the impermanent nature of Dark Reign; it nevertheless saddened me to see it go.
Thankfully, nothing ever stays dead for long in comics; and this coming November we’ll all be treated to a revival of Dark Avengers.
As happy as this makes me, perhaps the most important part about this is the fact that both Bendis and Deodato are supposedly returning to the book which, ideally; will result in a similar standard of quality.
Anyway, nothing else has really been announced about Dark Avengers at this point, other than the fact that Norman Osborn will once again be leading it.
Though somehow I doubt Deodato will be using Tommy Lee Jones as a reference again.
While my comic plate is, as always; very much full at the moment, I look forward to getting a chance to read a new Dark Avengers trade, which given the nature of Marvel’s release dates, won’t be until well into 2012.
If you think it’s silly to be anticipating a comic release about 6-8 months ahead of time, think about all the people that have been losing their shit over
The Dark Knight Rises
ever since 5 minutes after
The Dark Knight
hit theaters.
Not that there’s anything wrong with that.
After all, I’m one of them.
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Brian Michael Bendis ,
Collected Editions ,
Comics ,
Daken ,
Dark Avengers ,
Dark Reign ,
DC ,
film ,
Gail Simone ,
Marvel ,
Mike Deodato ,
movie ,
Norman Osborn ,
Secret Six ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Sentry ,
Thunderbolts ,
Tommy Lee Jones ,
Warren Ellis
August 4, 2011 • 6:23 PM
9
Zack Snyder’s Superman Looks Like… Every Zack Snyder Movie Ever
At this point you’ve probably heard that CGI and slow motion enthusiast
Zack Snyder
will be directing the next
Superman
film.
If not, congratulation, you have a life and are not a hopeless comic book dork like myself.
As tends to be the case when films make as much money as
The Dark Knight
did, the folks over at
Warner Bros
decided to hop on the “let’s not feature the name of the title character in the title” bandwagon, and went ahead and called the film
The Man of Steel .
Far be it from me to say that there’s anything
wrong
with a movie called The Man of Steel, but to me the logic behind that decision seems more than a little transparent.
*ANYWAY*
The photo at the top of this post is the first promotional image to be released featuring  Henry Cavil
donning the iconic Superman costume.
Truth be told, I couldn’t tell you, nor give a fuck to
learn , just who Henry Cavil
is , or what he’s done; but oh well, I’m just here to talk about the costume.
Strangely enough, the first thing I noticed about this image, was the post-processing and color correction that went into manufacturing it.
Simply put, Zack Snyder’s films have a “look” to them.
In fact, with the exception of the
Guardians of Ga’Who-Gives-A-Fuck , an animated children’s film; they
all
have the same damn “look” to them.
Even though it’s not at all achieved through the use of a filter, I like to call it the “Zack Snyder Filter”:
Zack Snyder: The Unreal Engine of Hollywood
Oh well, I suppose consistency like this is easy to achieve, and mostly forgiveable; when the man’s only made about 5 movies…
Anyway, in looking at the Superman image above, it’s pretty clear that The Man of Steel is going to embody the same aesthetic that Zack Snyder has utilized in virtually all of his films.
That is to say, everything will be grainy and metallic/bronzed, and there will be much slow motion fighting for the sake of… Well, slow motion fighting.
Replace Goku and Frieza with Superman and General Zod and you have Zack Snyder's Superman.
Moving on to the actual costume, in all honesty; I don’t hate it.
Superman’s costume is iconic to the point of being one of, if not
the best
superhero designs of all time.
To attempt any sort of radical change to the traditional costume is betray the fanbase, shit on the character, and ultimately throw away one of the most perfect distillations of the archetypal golden age caped superhero design.
In other words, when it comes to Superman, you just plain
DON’T
fuck with the costume.
Otherwise you end up with shit like the “blue” Superman of the 90’s:
May we never speak of this again...
Bearing more than a passing resemblance to the similarly muted
Superman Returns
costume, The Man of Steel costume seems to keep everything you’d expect in a Superman costume, while bringing very little new to the table.
Oddly enough, the one notable unique quality of the new costume, is the almost chain mail like texture to it.
Bearing more than a passing resemblance to the various
Spider-Man movie
costumes, as well as some of the redesigns for the
Watchmen
movie, I find this texture to be distracting and excessively gaudy.
Then again, Zack Snyder films have a tendency to be excessively gaudy as a whole, which would probably result in said extraneous details to be more consistent with the aesthetic of the film, rather than overly extravagant.
In case you couldn’t tell, Zack Snyder would not have been my first choice as director for a Superman film.
Then again, I haven’t really liked a Superman movie since the second one; so it’s hard to say if I’d have confidence in
anyone
to do justice to the Man of Steel.
Anyway, the costume is kind of “meh,” Henry Cavil has failed to generate enough interest for me to even take a peek at his Imdb page; and in general, I really see no reason to be excited about The Man of Steel at this point.
The Dark Knight Rises
on the other hand, now
that’s
a movie to flip out about and irrationally anticipate despite it’s release date being
WAY
the fuck out there…
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
300 ,
anime ,
Batman ,
Comics ,
DC ,
Dragonball Z ,
films ,
Frieza ,
Goku ,
Japanese ,
Legend of the Guardians ,
manga ,
Marvel ,
Movies ,
Spider-Man ,
Sucker Punch ,
Superman ,
Superman Returns ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Man of Steel ,
The Owls of Ga'Hoole ,
Warner Bros. ,
Watchmen ,
Zack Snyder
March 2, 2011 • 7:53 PM
3
Thoughts On The Dark Knight Rises Rumor Mill
Jim Lee Batman FTW.
I happened upon
an article on IGN
earlier today that ruminated on some possible plot details of
Christopher Nolan’s
upcoming
Batman
three-quel,
The Dark Knight Rises .
Said article made mention of
Talia al Ghul
and the
League of Shadows
(“Assassins” in the comics) likely having a role in the central plot of the film, which most likely points to
Tom Hardy’s
previously announced role as
Bane
taking a hit in screen time and dramatic relevance.
"Bane takes backseat to NO ONE!!!"
My personal objections to this potential snubbing of Bane aside, I honestly feel that Talia could be an interesting element to the overarching story of the Nolan-verse of Batman lore.
With
Catwoman
already announced for the cast of the film, we now have
2
very potent femme fatales of Batman’s rogues present in 1 film.
Combine that with a Bruce Wayne who’s very likely still shaky around the lady-folk due to his previous love getting, y’know; blown the fuck up in the
previous movie , and you have the makings of a very intricate and deceptive love triangle.
Eew! Batman has cooties!
In addition to this, Talia serves as an effective anchor to
Batman Begins
in the form of her familial relation to the primary villain of that film,
Ra’s al Ghul ; making for an epic plot thread that, if executed properly; will lend a sense cohesiveness to the whole trilogy.
While nothing is certain, least of all the plot elements mentioned above; the thought of Bane being cast as anything less than a primary villain feels like kind of a letdown.
When Bane was initially announced as a villain for The Dark Knight Rises, I was hoping against hope that he was going to be
the
villain, that is; the main foil for Batman regardless of whatever notables of his rogues gallery ended up being cast in the film.
Upon reading that Talia was a possible element of the film though, it makes it hard to picture Bane as little more than the muscle, or worse yet; a pawn to the machinations of the League of Shadows.
Despite my
personal
disappointment in said news, (anything short of a live-action
Knightfall
will probably fall short in my eyes…) it’s interesting to note that this particular plot rumor actually follows the Batman comics pretty closely.
Not long ago, I was fortunate to acquire a copy of the somewhat rare Batman story arc entitled
Legacy .
I PAID!
In Legacy, the Bat-Family (including Catwoman) is charged with preventing Ra’s Al Ghul, his daughter Talia, Bane, and the entire League of Shadows
from unleashing a catastrophic plague on humankind.
While the story is indeed “comic booky” to the point of being unfeasible for live-action adaptation, the
one
element of the story that drew to pick it up, was that Legacy was known to contain the
only
legitimate rematch between Batman and Bane post-Knightfall.
While I honestly can say, grudgingly; that the rematch was not at all worth the
considerable
price of admission, it was fascinating to see Bane incorporated into a Ra’s Al Ghul story nonetheless.
In Legacy, Bane’s role was that of a stand-in for Bruce Wayne as Ra’s Al Ghul’s potential heir.
A key storyline that has often been used in interactions between Batman and Ra’s Al Ghul has always been that of Ra’s wishing to marry Talia off to Bruce and have him take control of the League of Shadows.
Hell, at one point Batman actually went through with all of the above; only to turn his back on Ra’s and Talia after a moral disagreement.
"Moral Disagreement" of course being code for "Naked Swordfight."
The point is, Bane is and always has been somewhat of a cracked mirror image of Batman, such that their origins and motivations are nearly opposite, but their abilities and steadfast natures are nearly identical.
Going with this line of thinking, the writers cleverly wrote Bane into Legacy as Ra’s new heir, as well as future husband to Talia.
If Christopher Nolan and his crew were to associate Bane with the League of Shadows in a fairly logical (by comic book standards) manner, such as the one listed above; I see no reason why it wouldn’t work out.
My hope remains that Tom Hardy is given free reign to take center stage as
the
villain of The Dark Knight Rises, but with
Anne Hathaway’s
Catwoman, the yet to be cast role of Talia, and
Joseph Gordon-Levitt’s
yet to be announced (or confirmed) role in the film also floating around somewhere in the script; it seems unrealistic to think that
anyone
will be claiming this film as their own.
Much like every Christopher Nolan film of the post-Batman Begins era, I’d expect The Dark Knight Rises to be very much an ensemble affair, making it unrealistic to expect a singular, commanding performance from anyone in the cast ala
Heath Ledger
and
Jack Nicholson’s
Joker (s).
Bane’s a heavy for sure, but his charisma and personality can’t hold a candle to the endless possibilities that a character like The Joker presents to actors.
That being said, I’m a Batman nut,
and
a Bane fanatic; so The Dark Knight Rises is basically the biggest comic book movie
ever
for me.
Gonna’ be hard to wait for this one…
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Anne Hathaway ,
article ,
Assassins ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Batman Begins ,
books ,
Catwoman ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
film ,
Heath Ledger ,
IGN ,
Jack Nicholson ,
Joker ,
Joseph Gordon-Levitt ,
Knightfall ,
League of Shadows ,
Movies ,
plot ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
rumor ,
speculation ,
storyline ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
Tom Hardy. Talia al Ghul
January 20, 2011 • 5:47 PM
2
Bane + Christopher Nolan = I Love You Christopher Nolan
It finally happened folks.
Bane
has been officially cast for
Christopher Nolan’s
next, and likely last;
Batman
film,
The Dark Knight Rises .
When I first read about it, I was floored.
I, along with God knows how many comic fans; have been asking for Bane in every Batman film since his debut in
Knightfall .
And no, THIS doesn't count.
He’s one of my favorite villains in Batman’s pantheon, and I have no doubt that Nolan will do him justice in bringing him to the silver screen.
Curiously enough,
Tom Hardy
of Nolan’s
Inception ; is cast as the titular South American juicing genius.
While I honestly don’t
see
Bane in Hardy at first glance, my perception of his as an actor is strictly limited to his performance in Inception, so I don’t think it fair of me to pass judgment based on that alone.
Even so, Hardy’s physical presence seems rather puny when compared to the hulking physique of the character, not to mention I’d be curious to see if he’ll be able to pull of a South American accent, but these are questions that only come to mind given my love for the character.
... Tom Hardy everyone!
Aside from the glee that shoots through my heart as I think of how awesome it’s going to be to see one of my favorite comic villains brought to life on the big screen, the best part of casting Bane for The Dark Knight Rises, is the fact that his character brings a very different dynamic to the mix.
Batman Begins
and
The Dark Knight
featured numerous villains of Batman’s gallery of rogues, however with the exception of perhaps
Ra’s Al Ghul , none of them stood as
physical
match to the caped crusader.
I like you Carrey, but Batman would turn your face inside out with one punch.
While Bane has shown (in the comics) that he is very much on par with Batman in terms of intelligence and cunning, the element of his character that stands out the most is that he is physically as strong as, or stronger; than Batman.
Aside from
Amygdala ,
Killer Croc , and maybe a few others, Batman rarely has to contend with opponents that physically outmatch him, let alone one’s that can count to 5.
Man, I love that clip…
Much like how I’ve been waiting (and continue to wait…) for another
Superman
film to cash in on the amazing success of the wholly under-appreciated
Superman II
by giving him villains he can slug it out with, I’ve spent much of my life waiting for a Batman film to put him up against someone that can duke it out with the dark knight.
As my “Sequential Visual Narrative” teacher once told me:
“Superman is only fun when he has something to punch.”
Which is why this FAILED and should have been titled: "Superman Lifts Progressively Heavier Things"
While I’m of course excited to see what Christopher Nolan’s script has in mind for Bane, the comic fan in me can’t help wonder/worry how Tom “Fish Lips” Hardy will do when it comes to embodying the beast that is Bane.
As evidenced by Nolan’s casting methods since Batman Begins, he’s a man very much keen on casting his films with actors he’s comfortable/familiar with, or failing that; lots and lots of English people.
Seriously man, you try an’ count how many actors in his movies come from across the pond, and you’re likely to run out of fingers
and
toes.
Oh well, it’s probably a comfort thing; and based on his success in the industry up to this point, I’d say it’s working for him.
Anyway,
Catwoman
has also been cast for The Dark Knight Rises, with
Anne Hathaway
filling the role.
Anne Hathaway's Eyes: The Only Thing That Can Compete With Jennifer Garner's Forehead in terms of hogging a shot.
She’s a decent actress, and definitely has a way about her that seems appropriate for Selina Kyle; however aside from
Michelle Pfeiffer’s
multi-faceted performance in
Batman Returns , I bear no love for the character whatsoever.
Honestly, as of this point I’m on board for The Dark Knight Rises for Bane and Chris Nolan; that’s about it.
Oh yeah, and
Michael Caine , ’cause he’s fuckin’ pimp.
Michael Caine on any given Thursday. That's your mom on the left, by the way.
Anyway, that’s it for today, hopefully you’re all as excited/elated as I am for this one!
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2 ,
2012 ,
Amygdala ,
Anne Hathaway ,
Austin Powers ,
Azrael ,
Batman ,
Batman and Robin ,
Batman Begins ,
Big ,
Catowman ,
Christian Bale ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
eyes ,
film ,
Goldmember ,
Heath Ledger ,
Jennifer Garner ,
Jim Carrey ,
Killer Croc ,
Knightfall ,
Michael Caine ,
Michelle Pfeiffer ,
Movies ,
pimp ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
Returns ,
Superman ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Joker ,
The Riddler ,
Tim Burton
Subscribe in a reader
Donate
About
About
An EPIC Tribute to the Greatness that is Donnie Yen
Azn Badger’s Top 25 Best NES Tracks
MASSIVE Summary of Mega Monster Battle: Ultra Galaxy Legend
Mega Man 1-8: Who’s the Best MAN!!!???
Salute To Time Crisis
The Top 10 Best Overkills in Movies
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
The Top 10 Videogame Songs
The Top 5 Traumatic Deaths in Movies
Recent Posts
The Hapa Bro-Cast 02/24/2015
And Now, English People Fighting… With Cats.
Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot Death Reel
A Nightmare On Elm Street Death Reel
Friday The 13th Death Reel
Sean Bean Death Reel
Space Ace Death Reel
Braindead 13 Death Reel
Archive
February 2015  (1)
February 2012  (1)
January 2012  (29)
December 2011  (31)
November 2011  (30)
October 2011  (31)
September 2011  (30)
August 2011  (31)
July 2011  (31)
June 2011  (30)
May 2011  (31)
April 2011  (30)
March 2011  (31)
February 2011  (28)
January 2011  (31)
December 2010  (31)
November 2010  (30)
October 2010  (31)
September 2010  (30)
August 2010  (31)
July 2010  (31)
June 2010  (30)
May 2010  (31)
April 2010  (9)
Tags 2
3
4
Action
anime
Arnold Schwarzenegger
Azn Badger
Batman
blog
Boss
boxing
Capcom
card
Comics
DC
Donnie Yen
fight
Fighting
film
films
funny
game
Games
gaming
Godzilla
Hulk Hogan
Japanese
Jurassic Park
Konami
kung fu
Let's Play
list
Magic
manga
Marvel
Mega Man
Michael Bay
MMA
movie
Movies
music
NES
Nintendo
Photoshop
platformer
Playstation
playthrough
PS3
review
Rocky
shooter
sidescroller
Sony
Spider-Man
Star Wars
Super
Superman
Sylvester Stallone
The Gathering
The Rock
Toho
Tokusatsu
Top 10
trading
Transformers
UFC
Ultimate Warrior
video
videogame
videogames
WCW
wrestling
WWE
WWF
Youtube
Meta
Register
Log in
Valid
XHTML
XFN
WordPress
Links
4th Dimension Computers
Another Sunny Morning
Ava Waits, Holistic Health and Nutrition Counselor
Channel 101
Channel 102
Christian Carvajal's Blog
CHUBB
Collected Editions
Coup De Cinema Official Website
DavidALudwig.com
Fear Nought Publishing
Games21.com, Free Games
Hapstance Films
Kotaku, The Gamer's Guide
Kraken Design
Kung Fu Cinema
Love HK Film
Maxboxing.com – The Ultimate Boxing Experience
My Deviant Art
My Youtube
Panda Color
Panda Smash's Guide to Not Sucking
Politics, Economics, and Pop
Preston Porter Video Production
Riot Prints
Sci Fi Japan
Super Sports Bros. World
The Spoony Experiment
Topless Robot
Twitch Film
Yesasia.com
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Grid Focus Theme .
Follow
Follow “Azn Badger's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 91 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com