The Dark Knight | Azn Badger's Blog
Azn Badger's Blog
What About the Lysine Contingency…?
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
December 20, 2011 • 8:54 PM
2
Thoughts On The Dark Knight Rises Trailer
It’s funny, when it comes to movies, I’m actually not that hard to impress.
While I consider myself well-versed in the world of film, at the end of the day all it really takes to peak my interest, is:
A): A decent cast.
B): A decent concept.
and C): The promise of people punching one another at some point in the movie.
In some cases that last one, if represented well enough, is the
only
excuse I need to see a movie, regardless of how dumb or crappy it is.
I rented the shit-fest that was
Unknown
purely in the hopes of seeing a handful of
Liam Neeson
related beat downs.
I saw
Fast Five
solely
for the purpose of seeing
Vin Diesel
and
The Rock
(not Dwayne) bro-out and put each other through particle board walls.
Pictured: Either The Rock is about to get suplexed, or Vin Diesel's in the process of getting Speared. I honestly can't tell...
And when it comes to
The Dark Knight Rises , as utterly incalculable as the build-up has, and will
continue
to be for the next 6 months or so, at the end of the day I will see it because it, unlike any other movie in film history; will deliver the long anticipated spectacle of
Batman
and
Bane  duking it out on the big screen.
That these 2 titans of comics are to be portrayed by capable actors such as
Christian Bale
and
Tom Hardy
respectively, is merely the icing on the cake.
I find this funny. Does that make me less of a man?
Christopher Nolan’s
track record when it comes to cinematography and fight choreography suggests that the ensuing bout will be clumsy and edited through a meat grinder, but even so, I’ve been waiting to see this fight brought to life on the silver screen since I was 6 years old; and crappy or not, I will not be denied.
That being said, Batman and Bane grudge match aside, what did I think of the new trailer for The Dark Knight Rises?
Well, to answer your question, I felt it was quite good by most standards, but much too enigmatic and fractured in it’s presentation to pack the same visceral punch that the later trailers for
The Dark Knight
did.
Here’s a refresher in case you need it:
I’d prefer not to compare the 2, as it’s obvious the people cutting the trailers for these movies came at it from very different tonal and thematic standpoints; but I feel it needs to be said that, to me, The Dark Knight really did have some of the
best
trailers of all time.
Everything, from the shot selection, to the music cues, to the overall pacing of the trailers for The Dark Knight was absolutely spot on.
What’s more, thanks to the dialogue-heavy nature of the trailers, as well as his untimely death, an absurd amount of buzz was generated for
Heath Ledger’s
portrayal of
The Joker , (*Sigh* “Why So Serious?”) not to mention the overall plot of the film was made crystal clear.
Though it sounds silly in this cynical age of ours, in many ways I feel the catchphrases and buzzwords of The Dark Knight actually served to make it’s advertising campaign both effective and memorable on the whole.
The trailer for The Dark Knight Rises has a lot of neat shots in it, promising quite a few interesting set piece moments, however, perhaps due to the lack of dialogue, many of these shots are difficult to interpret from a purely visual standpoint.
Early on we see the reflection of a man with a cane approaching a shiny dinner platter while
Alfred
drones on about the Wayne dynasty:
Pictured: I have no fucking clue. Maybe a Ra's Al Ghul flashback?
At some point we see someone stumble onto the set of
Kenneth Branagh’s
Hamlet :
Pictures: Ballrooms + Flower Petals = Hamelt. It's science.
Later, we see a bearded Bruce Wayne wandering around what appears to be the prison equivalent to
Discovery Zone :
I know it's probably supposed to be a prison, but honestly, I kind of wanna' play on it...
There’s
that French lady
from
Inception  n’shit.
A FOOTBALL FIELD was just DESTROYED! WHY ARE YOU SMILING!?
There’s
Joseph Gordon-Levitt .
Pictured: Joseph Gordon "Still Not Sure Where To Put The Hyphen" Levitt.
There’s
A SHIT TON
of rappeling.
The Dark Knight Rises: A Story of Men On Ropes.
And then we have
Anne Hathaway
as a mean lady that may or may not be
Catwoman .
Seriously, if you take into account the fact that maybe,
just maybe , the people viewing this trailer haven’t been blogging about every step of the script writing process, or staring at leaked production photos for the past several months, (oddly enough, not me!) then this trailer basically offers no hint as to her role being that of Selina Kyle.
Oh wait excuse me, she’s wearing a mask at a masquerade ball that, if you look
really
hard, has
cat ears :
Direct quote: "WHOOOOOOOO!!!!!!"
Sarcasm deployed, mystery solved.
Much like
Aaron Eckhart’s
Two-Face , unless you’ve been following the production or are familiar with the Batman universe, chances are you’d never know Anne Hathaway was supposed to be Catwoman in this trailer.
Indeed, I’m curious to know what this trailer meant to people who
aren’t
familiar with Batman outside of the movies.
In many ways, when I watch this trailer, I feel my perception is skewed by the fact that I already have an attachment to and understanding of many of the characters based on their comic book equivalent.
When I think “Bane,” I already have an image in mind of what I expect from him.
When I hear Tom Hardy speaking through his mask I say to myself:
"I can see how people could find that hard to understand, but goddamnit that sounds like Bane!"
When I see scenes from the trailer like the prison break, I think to myself:
"Nice. That looks straight out of Knightfall!"
To the average Batman virgin however, I’d imagine imagery such as this would be provocative, but purely in a “oh, so that’s gonna’ happen at some point” kind of way.
Hell, I’m willing to bet the average Bat Virgin doesn’t have the slightest clue as to
who
or
what
Bane even is.
What I think I’m trying to say, is that the style of editing and presentation of this trailer is enticing, as anything with a budget and pretty pictures can manage to be, but at the same time I feel frustrated by the numerous vagaries it throws in my lap.
As you can probably tell, I’m not a fan of the
J.J. Abrams -style marketing.
It’s not that I prefer my trailers to spell their plots and structure out to me, I simply value coherence and context over sound cues and pretty pictures.
Much like all of Christopher Nolan’s blockbusters, The Dark Knight Rises appears to be an audio-visual powerhouse, though in some ways it appears a little less so at this point.
The set pieces looks suitably big, but the color palette appears more gray-ish and natural than The Dark Knight and
Batman Begins , and curiously enough, despite it being an almost comical trademark of his, there’s not a single (gorgeous) overhead shot of a cityscape.
Instead he decided to pull a 180 and do an INVERTED overhead shot for the poster!
That last part troubles me, as I’m a big fan of Nolan’s wide open establishing shots, particularly in outdoor scenes, and though it may just be the editor’s doing; there are none to be found in this trailer.
Perhaps the strangest thing though, at least to me, is the fact that they re-used the mood building drone AKA The Joker’s theme from The Dark Knight in this trailer.
I always thought of that particular piece of music as “belonging” to The Joker, which made it somewhat puzzling to hear played over a trailer for a film that, almost certainly; won’t feature him.
Despite everything I’ve said about this trailer, both good and bad, at the end of the day it’s a very good piece of advertising for a sequel that, unfortunately, benefitted from some of the best advertising and pre-release buzz in recent memory.
Not only that, it’s only the
first
trailer, for a huge movie that isn’t dropping until late in the summer.
As good as the advertising for The Dark Knight was from the get go, the 2nd trailers for it,
Iron Man , and Inception were all
MONUMENTALLY
better than the first, which leads me to believe the same will likely be the case with The Dark Knight Rises.
In addition to this, one also has to consider the fact that virtually all of Christopher Nolan’s blockbusters up to this point, while heavily advertised, also did well to avoid showing a great deal of the major story beats and action set pieces.
I mean hell, neither the teaser nor the trailer saw any mention of
Morgan Freeman’s
Lucius Fox , nor any of stuff from the prologue sequence that made the rounds through theaters last week.
I don’t know about you, but up until it’s release I really thought the “truck flip” from The Dark Knight trailer was going to be the climax of the movie.
Instead, the entire skyscraper based finale of the movie ended up playing that role, while never once being hinted at in the trailers.
I guess what I’m trying to say, is that though I may seem overly critical, in truth I’m just a fanboy hoping for the best.
In the meantime though, as weird as it seems, I think I actually liked the almost universally panned
teaser
for The Dark Knight Rises somewhat better than the trailer.
True, most of the footage was borrowed from Batman Begins.
True,
Commissioner Gordon’s
dialogue was hard to understand.
True, virtually nothing Commissioner Gordon had to say was even
worth
hearing in the first place.
BUT , at the very end of the teaser, there is a single, barely 2 second shot that made it all worth it:
Pictured: All I needed to see.
Batman in the rain, taking a deep breath, while Bane slowly approaches from the foreground.
The whole thing was crap up until then, but that last shot instantly sold me.
The trailer, while bigger and much more coherent, didn’t have this shot or even a suitable equivalent.
True, it featured a few shots of Batman and Bane throwing down in the snow, however I felt the subtlety and dramatic implication of the teaser shot did more to appease the fanboy in me than the entirety of the full trailer.
That’s just me though.
Do I ever need a reason to post this? Didn't think so...
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Aaron Eckhart ,
Alfred ,
Anne Hathaway ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Batman Begins ,
Catwoman ,
Christian Bale ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
Fast Five ,
fight ,
film ,
Heath Ledger ,
Inception ,
Iron Man ,
JJ Abrams ,
Joseph Gordon-Levitt ,
Knightfall ,
Liam Neeson ,
Lucius Fox ,
Marion Cotillard ,
Marvel ,
Morgan Freeman ,
movie ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Joker ,
The Rock ,
Tom Hardy ,
trailer ,
Two-Face ,
Unknown ,
Vin Diesel
October 3, 2011 • 7:34 PM
14
I Think I Just Found My New Favorite Movie
“Holy shit…”
Those were the words that crept out of my mouth as I looked on in bedazzled awe at the brutal majesty of the trailer for
The Raid .
Good trailers are hard to come by, let alone of the exhilarating and breathtaking variety; but if you ask me, The Raid might take the cake.
Back in the day I watched the trailers for
The Dark Knight
and
Flash Point
over and over again due to the artistry in their composition, but Jesus-fuck man, I’ll be damned if The Raid doesn’t absolutely blow them out of the water with pure adrenaline and carnage.
That being said, I feel I should mention that I have an unwatched copy of
Merantau
that’s been sitting on my shelf for the past 6 months.
Immediately after watching the trailer for The Raid and seeing what the crew behind it were truly capable of, (the same crew that worked on Merantau including director
Gareth Evans
and star
Iko Uwais ) I started kicking myself over dodging Merantau all this time.
That’s right, I was
so
upset with myself that I literally kicked myself in the fucking brain.
Rest assured, though I may have found reasons to overlook it in the past, after watching the trailer for The Raid, I’ll likely be popping Merantau into my DVD player within the next few hours.
Make that
NOW.
Anyway, there’s not a whole lot to say about The Raid, other than the fact that it looks like an action/martial arts movie lover’s dream.
I could be assuming too much, but from what I saw in the trailer and read in reviews (all of which were absolutely
glowing ), the movie basically consists of a simple setup in the form of a police raid on a criminal infested apartment complex, and after that it’s just a rollercoaster of fighting and shoot outs.
It’s like
Black Hawk Down , mixed with the hospital scene in
Hard Boiled .
Throw in a healthy dose of martial arts, and play it all out over the course of
THE ENTIRE FILM , and you have yourself the makings of a perfect movie.
If I could make a movie, The Raid is probably a good example of the kind of shit I’d dump my money into.
Seriously man, this movie looks so hardcore, and I can’t wait to see it.
And I’m guessing you’ll feel the same way once you take a look at perhaps the single most breathtaking action movie trailer I’ve ever seen:
Filed under:
Kung Fu ,
Movies ,
best ,
Black Hawk Down ,
ever ,
Flash Point ,
Gareth Evans ,
Hard-Boiled ,
Iko Uwais ,
Indonesian ,
kung fu ,
martial arts ,
Merantau ,
Silat ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Raid ,
trailer
September 24, 2011 • 10:23 PM
0
I Kind Of Miss Kevin Riepl…
I know what you’re thinking:
“Who’s
Kevin Riepl ?”
Well, to be perfectly honest; I have absolutely no fucking clue.
That is, outside of knowing him as the man responsible for composing the first
Gears of War
soundtrack, I’m really not familiar with his body of work.
IMDb-ing him (IMDb track videogames? Since when?) brings to light the fact that he has some strong ties to
Epic Games , in the form of contributing soundtracks to several entries in the
Unreal Tournament series .
Despite being familiar with most of these games, I can honestly say their music failed to leave an impression on me.
Probably because I ever recall of the Unreal games, at least from an audio standpoint; is this:
That being said, ever since I first played it, the Gears of War soundtrack, more specifically the main theme of the game; has always stood out to me as one of the better and more memorable game soundtracks out there, particularly in the modern era where games tend to favor ambient tunes over more thematic ones.
If you haven’t heard it before, then you’re in for a treat:
Imagine my surprise when I discovered neither Riepl, nor his brilliant theme music would be returning for any of the Gears sequels.
I may be in the minority on this, but I grew up watching
James Bond
and
Godzilla
movies by the truckload, movies that have managed to go 50+ without ditching the legendary themes that helped cement them in our minds as the film classics that they are.
Like many people, I grew attached to those themes and have come to associate them as aspects of the characters they were written for.
Sure, there were occasional moments in time when the themes were cast aside for a movie or 2, but at the end of the day they would always come back somewhere down the line.
Gears of War 2
and
3
were both composed by
Steve Jablonsky .
While I’m probably wrong, my gut tells me that Epic contracted his services likely due to a combination of their incredible financial success with Gears 1, as well as Jablonsky’s newfound mainstream fame due to his involvement in the live-action
Transformers film .
Maybe it’s just me, but in picturing a bunch of newly wealthy videogame nerds getting geared up for their big sequel, I could honestly see them ditching their in-house composer in favor of succumbing to their own dorkiness and hiring “The Transformers Guy” on a whim.
I’m sure that’s not how it actually went down, but I have my suspicions…
Anyway, while Jablonsky did a
terrific
job with the franchise following Riepl’s departure, in truth I kind of wish he hadn’t ejected the original theme music in favor of his own take on it.
Give it a listen and see what you think:
I would never consider this theme to be anything less than “good,” but there’s just something about it that feels “weaker” and less engaging.
Don’t get me wrong, Jablonsky’s a great composer, but there are just some elements to the style of his militaristic soundtracks that rub me the wrong way.
While it could just be me still being bitter over the complete and utter failure of
Transformers 2
and
3
in living up to the even the
slightest
of expectations, in general I’ve found his work on those movies, as well as the Gears series; to be somewhat pretentious and/or melodramatic.
Maybe it’s just me, but I feel both the Gears and Transformers franchises tried way too hard to insert unwarranted emotion and drama into stories that were truly devoid of any.
I prefer my Gears minus the extra helping of “Dom and Maria” thank you very much.
Dom and Maria: A plot device that allows for many instances of Dom related emo-ness masked as "emotional masculinity."
Back to Jablonsky.
He does a wonderful job of creating a mood and a “feel” to the music in such a way that it seems to fit the “texture” of the imagery it is meant to be played over, but his incessant use of choirs and
Dark Knight / Inception
style droning really feels a bit overbearing to me.
His soundtrack or Gears 2 was
solid , especially in terms of the action cues, but far inferior to the original in terms of the overall strength and memorability of it’s themes.
While I haven’t played the game as of yet, in listening to the soundtrack for Gears 3, I can honestly say I like it better than the second.
Check it out:
The choirs are less, uh, “manly,” such that the music is much more graceful/lyrical, and less like a rehash of the droning
Decepticons
theme from the Transformers films.
Even so, despite vastly improving his theme for the game, I still maintain that the Jablonsky theme of Gears 3 is inferior to Riepl’s original.
I acknowledge that Jablonsky’s compositions are quite good overall, and that I very likely could just be being a sourpuss about all this; but in my opinion they should have never changed composers.
Filed under:
Games ,
Movies ,
2 ,
3 ,
360 ,
composer ,
Dom and Maria ,
Epic Games ,
game ,
Gears of War ,
Godzilla ,
Hans Zimmer ,
Inception ,
James Bond ,
Kevin Riepl ,
music ,
Steve Jablonsky ,
The Dark Knight ,
theme ,
Transformers ,
videogame ,
Xbox
August 13, 2011 • 10:44 PM
3
The Return Of The Dark Avengers
( Image courtesy
IGN.com )
Awhile back I was fortunate to have had the opportunity to
compose a guest review for a comic
over at the excellent review blog,
Collected Editions .
As a frequent reader there, I was aware that the chief writer there covered
DC comics
almost exclusively, however I myself was told that I would have free reign in choosing which comic I’d like to review, regardless of the publisher.
That being said, of all the comics I had read recently; I chose to review the first trade of the flagship title under
Marvel’s
Dark Reign
banner,
The Dark Avengers .
The Dark Avengers doing their best "SUCK MY DICK" poses.
Brian Michael Bendis
has never been my favorite writer, but his trademark colorful dialogue, combined with a strong cast and
Mike Deodato’s
always stellar pencil work, made for an irresistible combination in my book.
For whatever reason, the idea of a superhero team composed of known supervillains has always “done it” for me.
Perhaps it also has something to do with the brilliance of writers like
Gail Simone
and
Warren Ellis , but for what it’s worth;
Secret Six
and
Thunderbolts
have consistently been 2 of my favorite books over the past half decade.
Pictured: One of many reasons Secret Six deserves your money.
Anyway, as tends to happen with books that emerge from high-profile events, Dark Avengers came to an unfortunate end when the status quo was once again shifted following the events of
Siege .
Norman Osborn , the team’s leader; was shipped off to prison.
The Sentry
was (supposedly) destroyed.
Daken
escaped to his own self-titled book.
And the rest of the team was either imprisoned, killed, or booted onto the Thunderbolts.
While I knew Dark Avengers wouldn’t last long, given the impermanent nature of Dark Reign; it nevertheless saddened me to see it go.
Thankfully, nothing ever stays dead for long in comics; and this coming November we’ll all be treated to a revival of Dark Avengers.
As happy as this makes me, perhaps the most important part about this is the fact that both Bendis and Deodato are supposedly returning to the book which, ideally; will result in a similar standard of quality.
Anyway, nothing else has really been announced about Dark Avengers at this point, other than the fact that Norman Osborn will once again be leading it.
Though somehow I doubt Deodato will be using Tommy Lee Jones as a reference again.
While my comic plate is, as always; very much full at the moment, I look forward to getting a chance to read a new Dark Avengers trade, which given the nature of Marvel’s release dates, won’t be until well into 2012.
If you think it’s silly to be anticipating a comic release about 6-8 months ahead of time, think about all the people that have been losing their shit over
The Dark Knight Rises
ever since 5 minutes after
The Dark Knight
hit theaters.
Not that there’s anything wrong with that.
After all, I’m one of them.
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Brian Michael Bendis ,
Collected Editions ,
Comics ,
Daken ,
Dark Avengers ,
Dark Reign ,
DC ,
film ,
Gail Simone ,
Marvel ,
Mike Deodato ,
movie ,
Norman Osborn ,
Secret Six ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Sentry ,
Thunderbolts ,
Tommy Lee Jones ,
Warren Ellis
August 4, 2011 • 6:23 PM
9
Zack Snyder’s Superman Looks Like… Every Zack Snyder Movie Ever
At this point you’ve probably heard that CGI and slow motion enthusiast
Zack Snyder
will be directing the next
Superman
film.
If not, congratulation, you have a life and are not a hopeless comic book dork like myself.
As tends to be the case when films make as much money as
The Dark Knight
did, the folks over at
Warner Bros
decided to hop on the “let’s not feature the name of the title character in the title” bandwagon, and went ahead and called the film
The Man of Steel .
Far be it from me to say that there’s anything
wrong
with a movie called The Man of Steel, but to me the logic behind that decision seems more than a little transparent.
*ANYWAY*
The photo at the top of this post is the first promotional image to be released featuring  Henry Cavil
donning the iconic Superman costume.
Truth be told, I couldn’t tell you, nor give a fuck to
learn , just who Henry Cavil
is , or what he’s done; but oh well, I’m just here to talk about the costume.
Strangely enough, the first thing I noticed about this image, was the post-processing and color correction that went into manufacturing it.
Simply put, Zack Snyder’s films have a “look” to them.
In fact, with the exception of the
Guardians of Ga’Who-Gives-A-Fuck , an animated children’s film; they
all
have the same damn “look” to them.
Even though it’s not at all achieved through the use of a filter, I like to call it the “Zack Snyder Filter”:
Zack Snyder: The Unreal Engine of Hollywood
Oh well, I suppose consistency like this is easy to achieve, and mostly forgiveable; when the man’s only made about 5 movies…
Anyway, in looking at the Superman image above, it’s pretty clear that The Man of Steel is going to embody the same aesthetic that Zack Snyder has utilized in virtually all of his films.
That is to say, everything will be grainy and metallic/bronzed, and there will be much slow motion fighting for the sake of… Well, slow motion fighting.
Replace Goku and Frieza with Superman and General Zod and you have Zack Snyder's Superman.
Moving on to the actual costume, in all honesty; I don’t hate it.
Superman’s costume is iconic to the point of being one of, if not
the best
superhero designs of all time.
To attempt any sort of radical change to the traditional costume is betray the fanbase, shit on the character, and ultimately throw away one of the most perfect distillations of the archetypal golden age caped superhero design.
In other words, when it comes to Superman, you just plain
DON’T
fuck with the costume.
Otherwise you end up with shit like the “blue” Superman of the 90’s:
May we never speak of this again...
Bearing more than a passing resemblance to the similarly muted
Superman Returns
costume, The Man of Steel costume seems to keep everything you’d expect in a Superman costume, while bringing very little new to the table.
Oddly enough, the one notable unique quality of the new costume, is the almost chain mail like texture to it.
Bearing more than a passing resemblance to the various
Spider-Man movie
costumes, as well as some of the redesigns for the
Watchmen
movie, I find this texture to be distracting and excessively gaudy.
Then again, Zack Snyder films have a tendency to be excessively gaudy as a whole, which would probably result in said extraneous details to be more consistent with the aesthetic of the film, rather than overly extravagant.
In case you couldn’t tell, Zack Snyder would not have been my first choice as director for a Superman film.
Then again, I haven’t really liked a Superman movie since the second one; so it’s hard to say if I’d have confidence in
anyone
to do justice to the Man of Steel.
Anyway, the costume is kind of “meh,” Henry Cavil has failed to generate enough interest for me to even take a peek at his Imdb page; and in general, I really see no reason to be excited about The Man of Steel at this point.
The Dark Knight Rises
on the other hand, now
that’s
a movie to flip out about and irrationally anticipate despite it’s release date being
WAY
the fuck out there…
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
300 ,
anime ,
Batman ,
Comics ,
DC ,
Dragonball Z ,
films ,
Frieza ,
Goku ,
Japanese ,
Legend of the Guardians ,
manga ,
Marvel ,
Movies ,
Spider-Man ,
Sucker Punch ,
Superman ,
Superman Returns ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Man of Steel ,
The Owls of Ga'Hoole ,
Warner Bros. ,
Watchmen ,
Zack Snyder
March 2, 2011 • 7:53 PM
3
Thoughts On The Dark Knight Rises Rumor Mill
Jim Lee Batman FTW.
I happened upon
an article on IGN
earlier today that ruminated on some possible plot details of
Christopher Nolan’s
upcoming
Batman
three-quel,
The Dark Knight Rises .
Said article made mention of
Talia al Ghul
and the
League of Shadows
(“Assassins” in the comics) likely having a role in the central plot of the film, which most likely points to
Tom Hardy’s
previously announced role as
Bane
taking a hit in screen time and dramatic relevance.
"Bane takes backseat to NO ONE!!!"
My personal objections to this potential snubbing of Bane aside, I honestly feel that Talia could be an interesting element to the overarching story of the Nolan-verse of Batman lore.
With
Catwoman
already announced for the cast of the film, we now have
2
very potent femme fatales of Batman’s rogues present in 1 film.
Combine that with a Bruce Wayne who’s very likely still shaky around the lady-folk due to his previous love getting, y’know; blown the fuck up in the
previous movie , and you have the makings of a very intricate and deceptive love triangle.
Eew! Batman has cooties!
In addition to this, Talia serves as an effective anchor to
Batman Begins
in the form of her familial relation to the primary villain of that film,
Ra’s al Ghul ; making for an epic plot thread that, if executed properly; will lend a sense cohesiveness to the whole trilogy.
While nothing is certain, least of all the plot elements mentioned above; the thought of Bane being cast as anything less than a primary villain feels like kind of a letdown.
When Bane was initially announced as a villain for The Dark Knight Rises, I was hoping against hope that he was going to be
the
villain, that is; the main foil for Batman regardless of whatever notables of his rogues gallery ended up being cast in the film.
Upon reading that Talia was a possible element of the film though, it makes it hard to picture Bane as little more than the muscle, or worse yet; a pawn to the machinations of the League of Shadows.
Despite my
personal
disappointment in said news, (anything short of a live-action
Knightfall
will probably fall short in my eyes…) it’s interesting to note that this particular plot rumor actually follows the Batman comics pretty closely.
Not long ago, I was fortunate to acquire a copy of the somewhat rare Batman story arc entitled
Legacy .
I PAID!
In Legacy, the Bat-Family (including Catwoman) is charged with preventing Ra’s Al Ghul, his daughter Talia, Bane, and the entire League of Shadows
from unleashing a catastrophic plague on humankind.
While the story is indeed “comic booky” to the point of being unfeasible for live-action adaptation, the
one
element of the story that drew to pick it up, was that Legacy was known to contain the
only
legitimate rematch between Batman and Bane post-Knightfall.
While I honestly can say, grudgingly; that the rematch was not at all worth the
considerable
price of admission, it was fascinating to see Bane incorporated into a Ra’s Al Ghul story nonetheless.
In Legacy, Bane’s role was that of a stand-in for Bruce Wayne as Ra’s Al Ghul’s potential heir.
A key storyline that has often been used in interactions between Batman and Ra’s Al Ghul has always been that of Ra’s wishing to marry Talia off to Bruce and have him take control of the League of Shadows.
Hell, at one point Batman actually went through with all of the above; only to turn his back on Ra’s and Talia after a moral disagreement.
"Moral Disagreement" of course being code for "Naked Swordfight."
The point is, Bane is and always has been somewhat of a cracked mirror image of Batman, such that their origins and motivations are nearly opposite, but their abilities and steadfast natures are nearly identical.
Going with this line of thinking, the writers cleverly wrote Bane into Legacy as Ra’s new heir, as well as future husband to Talia.
If Christopher Nolan and his crew were to associate Bane with the League of Shadows in a fairly logical (by comic book standards) manner, such as the one listed above; I see no reason why it wouldn’t work out.
My hope remains that Tom Hardy is given free reign to take center stage as
the
villain of The Dark Knight Rises, but with
Anne Hathaway’s
Catwoman, the yet to be cast role of Talia, and
Joseph Gordon-Levitt’s
yet to be announced (or confirmed) role in the film also floating around somewhere in the script; it seems unrealistic to think that
anyone
will be claiming this film as their own.
Much like every Christopher Nolan film of the post-Batman Begins era, I’d expect The Dark Knight Rises to be very much an ensemble affair, making it unrealistic to expect a singular, commanding performance from anyone in the cast ala
Heath Ledger
and
Jack Nicholson’s
Joker (s).
Bane’s a heavy for sure, but his charisma and personality can’t hold a candle to the endless possibilities that a character like The Joker presents to actors.
That being said, I’m a Batman nut,
and
a Bane fanatic; so The Dark Knight Rises is basically the biggest comic book movie
ever
for me.
Gonna’ be hard to wait for this one…
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Anne Hathaway ,
article ,
Assassins ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Batman Begins ,
books ,
Catwoman ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
film ,
Heath Ledger ,
IGN ,
Jack Nicholson ,
Joker ,
Joseph Gordon-Levitt ,
Knightfall ,
League of Shadows ,
Movies ,
plot ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
rumor ,
speculation ,
storyline ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
Tom Hardy. Talia al Ghul
February 6, 2011 • 10:56 PM
1
Brain Fart
Today was a
long
day at work.
Like, “Holy Fuck, I Need A New Job/Life”
long .
My brother
and his girlfriend were over for the Super Bowl festivities, (that I largely missed out on…) resulting in much merriment throughout the remainder of the evening.
That being said, while my brother was kind enough to help me with coming up with material for a shit ton of
future
posts, my fatigue coupled with my limited time frame for writing this evening has resulted in me having neither the inspiration, nor time, nor
desire
to write anything tonight.
Unfortunately, I missed the airing of the
Captain America
trailer; which was something I was very much hoping to write about.
Oh well, maybe in a few days…
Anyway, I got nothin’ for tonight.
Here’s a stupid pic of
Aaron Eckhart
looking, well; stupid:
*Pfft!*
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Aaron Eckhart ,
baseball ,
Captain America ,
Comic Book ,
DC ,
Football ,
gif ,
head explode ,
Ichiro Suzuki ,
Marvel ,
movie ,
Packers ,
Scanners ,
Steelers ,
Super Bowl ,
The Dark Knight ,
trailer
January 20, 2011 • 5:47 PM
2
Bane + Christopher Nolan = I Love You Christopher Nolan
It finally happened folks.
Bane
has been officially cast for
Christopher Nolan’s
next, and likely last;
Batman
film,
The Dark Knight Rises .
When I first read about it, I was floored.
I, along with God knows how many comic fans; have been asking for Bane in every Batman film since his debut in
Knightfall .
And no, THIS doesn't count.
He’s one of my favorite villains in Batman’s pantheon, and I have no doubt that Nolan will do him justice in bringing him to the silver screen.
Curiously enough,
Tom Hardy
of Nolan’s
Inception ; is cast as the titular South American juicing genius.
While I honestly don’t
see
Bane in Hardy at first glance, my perception of his as an actor is strictly limited to his performance in Inception, so I don’t think it fair of me to pass judgment based on that alone.
Even so, Hardy’s physical presence seems rather puny when compared to the hulking physique of the character, not to mention I’d be curious to see if he’ll be able to pull of a South American accent, but these are questions that only come to mind given my love for the character.
... Tom Hardy everyone!
Aside from the glee that shoots through my heart as I think of how awesome it’s going to be to see one of my favorite comic villains brought to life on the big screen, the best part of casting Bane for The Dark Knight Rises, is the fact that his character brings a very different dynamic to the mix.
Batman Begins
and
The Dark Knight
featured numerous villains of Batman’s gallery of rogues, however with the exception of perhaps
Ra’s Al Ghul , none of them stood as
physical
match to the caped crusader.
I like you Carrey, but Batman would turn your face inside out with one punch.
While Bane has shown (in the comics) that he is very much on par with Batman in terms of intelligence and cunning, the element of his character that stands out the most is that he is physically as strong as, or stronger; than Batman.
Aside from
Amygdala ,
Killer Croc , and maybe a few others, Batman rarely has to contend with opponents that physically outmatch him, let alone one’s that can count to 5.
Man, I love that clip…
Much like how I’ve been waiting (and continue to wait…) for another
Superman
film to cash in on the amazing success of the wholly under-appreciated
Superman II
by giving him villains he can slug it out with, I’ve spent much of my life waiting for a Batman film to put him up against someone that can duke it out with the dark knight.
As my “Sequential Visual Narrative” teacher once told me:
“Superman is only fun when he has something to punch.”
Which is why this FAILED and should have been titled: "Superman Lifts Progressively Heavier Things"
While I’m of course excited to see what Christopher Nolan’s script has in mind for Bane, the comic fan in me can’t help wonder/worry how Tom “Fish Lips” Hardy will do when it comes to embodying the beast that is Bane.
As evidenced by Nolan’s casting methods since Batman Begins, he’s a man very much keen on casting his films with actors he’s comfortable/familiar with, or failing that; lots and lots of English people.
Seriously man, you try an’ count how many actors in his movies come from across the pond, and you’re likely to run out of fingers
and
toes.
Oh well, it’s probably a comfort thing; and based on his success in the industry up to this point, I’d say it’s working for him.
Anyway,
Catwoman
has also been cast for The Dark Knight Rises, with
Anne Hathaway
filling the role.
Anne Hathaway's Eyes: The Only Thing That Can Compete With Jennifer Garner's Forehead in terms of hogging a shot.
She’s a decent actress, and definitely has a way about her that seems appropriate for Selina Kyle; however aside from
Michelle Pfeiffer’s
multi-faceted performance in
Batman Returns , I bear no love for the character whatsoever.
Honestly, as of this point I’m on board for The Dark Knight Rises for Bane and Chris Nolan; that’s about it.
Oh yeah, and
Michael Caine , ’cause he’s fuckin’ pimp.
Michael Caine on any given Thursday. That's your mom on the left, by the way.
Anyway, that’s it for today, hopefully you’re all as excited/elated as I am for this one!
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2 ,
2012 ,
Amygdala ,
Anne Hathaway ,
Austin Powers ,
Azrael ,
Batman ,
Batman and Robin ,
Batman Begins ,
Big ,
Catowman ,
Christian Bale ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
eyes ,
film ,
Goldmember ,
Heath Ledger ,
Jennifer Garner ,
Jim Carrey ,
Killer Croc ,
Knightfall ,
Michael Caine ,
Michelle Pfeiffer ,
Movies ,
pimp ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
Returns ,
Superman ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Joker ,
The Riddler ,
Tim Burton
September 29, 2010 • 8:15 PM
6
Batman’s New Threads
I was clickin’ around on
IGN
earlier today, when I noticed an article in their comics section entitled, “ Batman Has A New Costume .”
Being a
Batman
enthusiast, I naturally clicked it, half-expecting some sort of shocking redesign along the lines of
Batman 500
AKA the
Jean-Paul Valley
Batman from the
Knightfall story arc .
Pictured: The EXACT image that got me into comics in the early 90's.
You see, though I admittedly haven’t followed Grant Morrison’s recent work on the Batman series, least of all the death and return of Bruce Wayne portion of it, with all of the outlandish Batman costume designs being thrown around as of late, I figured we were due for even more craziness.
Goddamnit! I hella' wanna' hate on this image for being dumb, but it's so damn awesome!
Color me surprised when I discovered that not only was the costume redesign a helluva’ lot more tasteful than I was expecting, it was also done by
Moon Knight
and, *sigh…*
Messiah Complex
artist David Finch was responsible for it.
As beautiful as his art can be, GODDAMN YOU DAVID FINCH FOR TRICKING ME INTO READING MESSIAH COMPLEX!
That being said, let’s take a look at Mr. Finch’s work:
ART.
I have to say, not just as a David Finch whore, but as a Batman fan in general, I really don’t mind the new costume.
Most of the changes are quite subtle, with some elements, such as the classic; almost
Tim Burton
Batman-esque yellow chest emblem, actually being recycled elements from previous designs of the Bat-Suit.
Keaton Batman: The Finest Batman the Silver Screen Has Yet to Produce.
In some images I’ve run across, it seems apparent that
DC
was trying to cash in on the recent mega-success of the
Arkham Asylum videogame , as both the beefier arm guards/gauntlets, the bulkier and more heavily ornamented utility belt, and the molded seam-lines of the suit seem very similar to the art style of the game.
No, the Joker is not about to suck Batman's cock.
Buncha' dirty sickos...
Which reminds me, I simply
have to
play Arkham Asylum at some point…
The seam-lines I mentioned above are probably the one aspect of the design that I’m on the fence about.
How appropriate that that just happens to be the single most noticeable change from the current status quo.
To me, the best Bat-Suit designs have always been the ones that take advantage of the 2D, pen and paper medium.
Blue Batman = THE SHIT.
In comics, the artist has the ability to manufacture images of characters without having to take into consideration the physical properties of whatever materials their costumes are made of.
Depending on the artist’s sensibilities, or the mood of the story, Batman’s cape and cowl can be rendered as smooth and voluminous as silk, or as heavy and lustrous as leather.
Kind of like Spawn!
You're not allowed to ask "why," you just kind of accept it...
In comics, Batman’s costume usually looks best to me when it’s portrayed as a skin-tight presence surrounding the character.
To me, Batman usually looks best when he isn’t so much
wearing
a Bat-Suit, as he is
embodying
it.
Jim Lee’s
Batman always struck me as a fantastic, if not ludicrously beefy design.
Jim Lee's Batman is so fucking beastly, it should be spelt "Bat-MAAAANNN."
Aside from the utility belt and heavily detailed boots, every element of Lee’s Bat-Suit strike me as essentially being a part of Bruce Wayne’s anatomy.
At the same time though, I have to say I was very impressed with
Lee Bermejo’s
rendering of the Bat-Suit in
Brian Azzarello’s
excellent
Joker graphic novel .
Not from Joker, but close enough.
Did I mention this art is badass?
Essentially at the other end of the spectrum in terms of costume/character design, Bermejo’s extremely realistic renderings resulted in a Bat-Suit of tangible weight and bulk, so much so that it truly seemed like a suit of armor.
Not only that, but Bermejo’s design of Batman’s cape was truly striking, as it appeared leathery and almost obscenely heavy, such that it assisted in portraying the character as being almost inhumanly powerful and omniscent.
I’m rambling.
To sum up, Finch’s design of the Bat-Suit is honestly only a mild departure from the status quo, but it’s amazing how much an impact a few seam-lines can make.
Personally, I find the new design to be, how shall we say; “ acceptable ,” I wouldn’t be surprised if those seam-lines get the axe somewhere down the road, as honestly I find them to be somewhat distracting.
Much like pie... If anything can stop me in my tracks, it's the sight and/or smell of a delicious pie...
To me, it’s almost as if Finch is trying to straddle the line behind the
Christopher Nolan
movie’s Bat-Armor design, and the comic’s traditional Bat-Suit, with the end result being a costume that appears almost flight suit-ish.
So what if Batman has brown-guy hands. I'm lazy, so sue me.
While I find the design to be
acceptable , I’ll end by saying this:
I’d take
Jim Aparo
or Jim Lee’s streamlined Bat-Suit over David Finch’s Bat-Flight-Suit any day.
That being said, here’s one more look at it for the road:
Cool enough, but nowhere Bat-MAAAANN levels of MAN-liness.
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
1989 ,
3 ,
500 ,
armor ,
Azrael ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Batman Begins ,
Batman: Arkham Asylum ,
Brian Azzarello ,
Bruce Wayne ,
caveman ,
chest ,
Christian Bale ,
comic books ,
Comics ,
costume design ,
DC comics ,
emblem ,
graphic novel ,
IGN ,
Image ,
Jack Nicholson ,
Jean-Paul Valley ,
Jim Aparo ,
Jim Lee ,
Joker ,
Lee Bermejo ,
Messiah Complex ,
Michael Keaton ,
Microsoft ,
Moon Knight ,
new ,
Playstation ,
PS3 ,
redesign ,
Sony ,
Spawn ,
The Dark Knight ,
Tim Burton ,
Todd Mcfarlane ,
x-men ,
Xbox 360
August 10, 2010 • 9:05 PM
3
Thoughts on Inception
Movie Poster Fail.
Let it be known, this article is not a review.
Like
my article
on
Splice , I don’t feel adequately qualified to properly review
Inception , and as such, I will instead use this post as a vehicle for my ruminations regarding it.
Anyway, let me begin by saying that:
I liked Inception.
I felt it was an entertaining and (conceptually) innovative film, that managed to hold my interest throughout despite it’s
sinfully
long running time.
Okay fine, the movie isn’t
Braveheart
long, but hey;
you
try going to see it in the theater at 10:45 at night and tell me it didn’t whip your ass.
10:45 PM or not, he's gonna' BEAT YOUR ASS.
Inception is a film that I absolutely
will not
spend time going into detail regarding the plot and other such bullshit.
I say this, not because I don’t want to drop spoilers, but because I honestly don’t remember most of them.
Oh yeah, and it would cause me physical pain to try and explain some of the goofy shit that goes on in this movie.
Seriously, I’d need a diorama,
Powerpoint , an old priest and a young priest just to explain the
concept
of this fucking movie.
Actually, I think Von Sydow would do well enough by himself.
Max Von Sydow was BORN looking that awesome.
The basic concept of the movie involves the manipulation and invasion of peoples’ dreams, leading to a story that mirrors that of an absurdly complex and convoluted heist film.
I say “convoluted” because there are moments when, just when you think you’ve got all the rules of the film’s impressively well thought out, and seemingly
structured
universe, the movie starts throwing you curve balls in the form of
changing
it’s own logic for the sake of convenience in regards to the plot.
That’s not to say this happens all the way through, however there were at least 2 occasions in which I honestly had to scratch my head and say:
“Huh?  Why the fuck did that just happen?”
Pictured: A film where such a phrase is often uttered by the viewer, and yet no explanations are offered...
It’s interesting to note that, despite the 2 films sharing very little in common, for whatever reason I kept saying to myself in the theater:
“This hella’ reminds me of
Flatliners …”
WHY THE FUCK HAS NO ONE SEEN THIS MOVIE!?
Despite it’s complex subject matter and, at times, fuzzy internal logic; it should be noted that Inception is by no means a genius of a film.
That is, unlike
The Legend of Zelda
on the
NES , Inception did not make me feel stupid or lost at any point, rather; it succeeded in making me feel
smart .
Let it be known, the Azn Badger is a Badger of barely average intelligence.
Your average Badger.
Azn or not.
An AZN Badger.
That being said, let me just say that the screenplay of Inception, like seemingly every
Christopher Nolan
film, is
very
redundant, and much too excessive with it’s incessant dropping of “breadcrumbs” for the viewer.
In example, let’s summarize the scripts for
Batman Begins ,
The Prestige , and
The Dark Knight :
Batman Begins:
“FEAR!!!!!!!! JUSTICE!!!!!!!!! I’M BATMAAAANNNNNN!!!!!!”
The Prestige:
“REVENGE!!!! MAGICAL DAVIIIIIIIDDDDDD BOWIIIIIIIIEEEEE!!!!!!”
The Dark Knight:
“CHAOS!!!! JUSTICE!!!!!!!!! WHERE IS HE!!!!!!!????”
To those of you that don’t habla Espanol, “breadcrumbs” refers to the little droplings, or tidbits of information that are interspersed throughout a screenplay to make those “Ah Hah!” moments seem more logical, and ultimately, more rewarding to the viewer.
Inception’s script is, to pound the metaphor totally into the ground,
not
sprinkled with breadcrumbs as most films should be, but is instead simply a whole loaf of bread.
Mmmmmm.... Inception.... *Drool*
Put it this way, if you’re paying attention, and are able to keep track of wherever the fuck the film’s logic decides to go throughout the movie, then chances are you’ll be able to figure out most of the major plot points a good 20 minutes to a half hour before I
think
the movie intended you to.
Anyway, good movie, provocative screenplay, but just a little bit heavy-handed with the exposition at times.
Attention Mr. Nolan: This is not the tool you use to write a script...
The acting performances in Inception were, in a word; “solid.”
I say this because, despite the all-star cast; Inception is by no means an actor’s movie.
Due to the hardened nature of most of the main characters, the majority of the performances consist of muted expressions and flat deliveries.
Hell, even most of the humor is deadpan.
Tom Hardy
has an accent, and that’s about all he did for me.
Ellen Page , while looking uncharacteristically fetching in this movie, also failed to leave any sort of impression.
Leonardo DiCaprio
is just about the only actor allowed to emote throughout, yet despite this; most of his thunder is stolen by the script’s propensity to spill the beans on it’s big character reveals long before their intended cues.
That being said,
Joseph Gordon-Levitt
and
Ken Watanabe
managed to make an impression based purely on their facial acting.
That and Levitt looks like my brother, but Jewish.
He looks like these two, a little.
Those are the only clues you're getting though...
Oh yeah, and Ken Watanabe is pimp, so he gets a pass as well.
One thing I feel that needs to be pointed out about Inception, is that the action is typical of a Christopher Nolan film.
One thing about Nolan that truly confuses me, is that he seems to know what he likes in his movies, and how he likes to shoot it, however, when it comes to framing action, the man just doesn’t have a clue.
Maybe it’s his cinematographer, or his editor’s fault, but regardless, whoever is fucking up really needs to stop it.
RIGHT NOW.
Simply put, Christopher Nolan likes sweeping aerial shots of cities,
Check...
car chases,
Double check...
and gunplay/fighting.
Check-A-Saurus Rex...
Inception, of course, has all of these things, however only 2 thirds of it is done well.
Don’t get me wrong, Nolan’s cityscape shots are always beautiful, as are his car chases, but when it comes to framing human-on-human violence, he sucks donkey balls.
My main issue with Nolan’s action scenes, is the lack of spacial awareness the viewer is given throughout.
You know that thing that the Hong Kong cinematographers do where they shoot the actors from the toes up so you can catch the detail and
intent
in their movements?
I know, a fight scene is totally different from your standard action scene, but bear with me...
Well, Nolan’s answer to this is to frame everything all loosey-goosey, and then throw the footage into the meat grinder until it makes a
Bourne
movie look under-edited.
It should be said though, that whoever does Mr. Nolan’s sound editing, should be given some sort of award *cough!*
Oscar!
*cough!*
Seriously, the sound of the gunfire in both The Dark Knight and Inception is a thing of beauty.
Truly the definition of “ear-popping.”
No, different kind of "ear pop," yah' dipshit...
Compliments aside, I have one more gripe about the action:
I know it’s realistic to choreograph a gunfight as a fairly stationary and controlled series of tactical potshots, but for
A MOVIE THAT TAKES PLACE IN FUCKING DREAMLAND , I’d expect things to be just a
little
bit more colorful.
WOAH!!!!! TOO MUCH COLOR!!!! DIAL THAT SHIT DOWN, SON!!!!
Seriously, what the fuck is the point of having gunfire and explosions in your movie if you aren’t going to go to the trouble to highlight them in any way.
On a final note, I’d like to take a minute to give my thoughts on the
soundtrack
of Inception.
A lot has been said about the ever so prolific,
Hans Zimmer’s , soundtrack of the movie.
Lookit' this smug fuck, with his dick-eatin' lips...
By, “a lot,” of course, I mean a lot of good.
Several of my friends hyped the soundtrack for me, such that I was really excited to hear the soundtrack, much more so than I was about seeing the movie in fact.
After all, my friends and I used to refer to Inception in daily speech as simply,
“BWAAAHHHHH!!!”
due to the brass blaring teaser trailer.
In example:
“Hey, did you see
BWAAAHHHH!!!
yet dude?”
Anyway, retarded bullshit aside, Inception’s soundtrack was booming, sweeping, and all sorts of epic, however I ended up leaving the theater with little to no recollection of any sort of themes or melodies played throughout.
In essence, the music was gorgeous, and almost mystifyingly dignified, almost like a classical symphony, however, despite being excessive and overbearing throughout, to me; it just wasn’t all that memorable or engaging.
Seriously, Inception had
a lot
of music, too much in fact.
The only musical memory I walked away from the film with was bittersweet, in that I realized one of the climax themes played during the last act of the film, was in fact played
twice
within the same act of the film.
That’s just fucking lazy.
I’ve always said Hans Zimmer was overrated, and while the score for Inception does little to change my impression of him, I will say this:
He’s done better.
Just as Christopher Nolan has done better.
And Leonardo DiCaprio has done better.
Even so, Inception is a good movie, that while lacking in some areas, and full of holes in others, is a film that, regardless of how you feel about it, leaves you with something to talk about.
Just like
The Matrix
more than 10 years before it, (wow, I’m really
that
old?) it’s by no means perfect, but something about it just makes us want to sit down
talk about it
with someone, for better or for worse.
In many ways, I can think of no greater success for a film of this nature.
Now let’s just hope they don’t go and blow it by making a shit ton of sequels…
Although Mr. Nolan can go ahead and make another
Batman .
The Azn Badger
loves
him some Batman…
Filed under:
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Action ,
baseball ,
Batman ,
Batman Begins ,
Braveheart ,
Bruce Lee ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Chuck Norris ,
DC comics ,
drama ,
Ellen Page ,
Eraserhead ,
Flatliners ,
Hans Zimmer ,
heist ,
Ichiro Suzuki ,
Inception ,
Joseph Gordon-Levitt ,
Ken Watanabe ,
Leonardo DiCaprio ,
Mariners ,
Max Von Sydow ,
movie ,
music ,
NES ,
review ,
Sci-fi ,
Seattle ,
soundtrack ,
Splice ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Exorcist ,
The Legend of Zelda ,
The Matrix ,
The Prestige ,
Tom Hardy ,
Vincenzo Natali ,
Way of the Dragon
Subscribe in a reader
Donate
About
About
An EPIC Tribute to the Greatness that is Donnie Yen
Azn Badger’s Top 25 Best NES Tracks
MASSIVE Summary of Mega Monster Battle: Ultra Galaxy Legend
Mega Man 1-8: Who’s the Best MAN!!!???
Salute To Time Crisis
The Top 10 Best Overkills in Movies
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
The Top 10 Videogame Songs
The Top 5 Traumatic Deaths in Movies
Recent Posts
The Hapa Bro-Cast 02/24/2015
And Now, English People Fighting… With Cats.
Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot Death Reel
A Nightmare On Elm Street Death Reel
Friday The 13th Death Reel
Sean Bean Death Reel
Space Ace Death Reel
Braindead 13 Death Reel
Archive
February 2015  (1)
February 2012  (1)
January 2012  (29)
December 2011  (31)
November 2011  (30)
October 2011  (31)
September 2011  (30)
August 2011  (31)
July 2011  (31)
June 2011  (30)
May 2011  (31)
April 2011  (30)
March 2011  (31)
February 2011  (28)
January 2011  (31)
December 2010  (31)
November 2010  (30)
October 2010  (31)
September 2010  (30)
August 2010  (31)
July 2010  (31)
June 2010  (30)
May 2010  (31)
April 2010  (9)
Tags 2
3
4
Action
anime
Arnold Schwarzenegger
Azn Badger
Batman
blog
Boss
boxing
Capcom
card
Comics
DC
Donnie Yen
fight
Fighting
film
films
funny
game
Games
gaming
Godzilla
Hulk Hogan
Japanese
Jurassic Park
Konami
kung fu
Let's Play
list
Magic
manga
Marvel
Mega Man
Michael Bay
MMA
movie
Movies
music
NES
Nintendo
Photoshop
platformer
Playstation
playthrough
PS3
review
Rocky
shooter
sidescroller
Sony
Spider-Man
Star Wars
Super
Superman
Sylvester Stallone
The Gathering
The Rock
Toho
Tokusatsu
Top 10
trading
Transformers
UFC
Ultimate Warrior
video
videogame
videogames
WCW
wrestling
WWE
WWF
Youtube
Meta
Register
Log in
Valid
XHTML
XFN
WordPress
Links
4th Dimension Computers
Another Sunny Morning
Ava Waits, Holistic Health and Nutrition Counselor
Channel 101
Channel 102
Christian Carvajal's Blog
CHUBB
Collected Editions
Coup De Cinema Official Website
DavidALudwig.com
Fear Nought Publishing
Games21.com, Free Games
Hapstance Films
Kotaku, The Gamer's Guide
Kraken Design
Kung Fu Cinema
Love HK Film
Maxboxing.com – The Ultimate Boxing Experience
My Deviant Art
My Youtube
Panda Color
Panda Smash's Guide to Not Sucking
Politics, Economics, and Pop
Preston Porter Video Production
Riot Prints
Sci Fi Japan
Super Sports Bros. World
The Spoony Experiment
Topless Robot
Twitch Film
Yesasia.com
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Grid Focus Theme .
Follow
Follow “Azn Badger's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 91 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com