January | 2011 | Azn Badger's Blog | Page 2
Azn Badger's Blog
What About the Lysine Contingency…?
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
January 21, 2011 • 10:33 PM
3
Sitting In On A Game Of Magic The Gathering
Today I had a chance to sit on my first
Magic The Gathering
tournament.
After having just done my
Tactical Panda Magic card parody the other day , the tournament was kind of a nice surprise; being as Magic was obviously on my mind.
Back in the day, I never really got too into Magic.
I started around fifth edition, and though I played the game and collected the cards for a few years; I never got into it enough to learn the nuances of deck construction or skillful play.
Like many casual card game collectors, most of my fascination with trading card games sprung from the amazing quality of the artwork.
To date, I’ve collected or played Magic,
Star Wars ,
Marvel Overpower , and
Pokemon
at various points in my youth; though my involvement with each never grew beyond a casual fascination.
Overpower: Fun Until Everybody Forgot How To Play...
Seeing Magic played by skillful players was actually kind of fun.
As is generally the case when watching/listening to things outside of your pool of knowledge, there was a lot of information that blew right over my head; however I was frequently surprised by how much of the core mechanics of the game I was able to remember.
Tapping mana, buffing creatures, managing upkeep, it all came back to me like I was some sort of long retired pro having flashbacks of my heyday.
Which is of course bullshit, being as I was
never
any good at Magic.
Pictured: How most Magic games involving The Azn Badger would usually end up.
By the way, I'm the guy on the right.
I found it downright spellbinding how all the players in this evening’s tournament were able to cite familiarity with each other’s cards, to the point in which little or no explanation of each player’s intent and card capabilities was necessary, making for a far more streamlined experience than I was used to.
Hell, 80% of the time I spent playing Magic was devoted to my opponent and I reading our card abilities to each other and fiercely debating their fairness.
Anyway, I don’t have much to say about the tournament, other than the fact that it was a lot of fun to watch other (better) players tool around in a game I abandoned so many years ago.
I don’t see myself ever getting back into card games, but it was a fun trip down memory lane nonetheless.
Excuse me as I root through my old Magic cards in search of any rare or valuable ones that may have found their way into my collection…
Filed under:
Comics ,
Games ,
Uncategorized ,
cards ,
Collectible ,
game ,
Howard Dean ,
Magic ,
Marvel ,
Movies ,
Nintendo ,
Overpower ,
Pokemon ,
scream ,
Star Wars ,
Tactical Panda ,
The Gathering ,
tournament ,
trading
January 20, 2011 • 5:47 PM
2
Bane + Christopher Nolan = I Love You Christopher Nolan
It finally happened folks.
Bane
has been officially cast for
Christopher Nolan’s
next, and likely last;
Batman
film,
The Dark Knight Rises .
When I first read about it, I was floored.
I, along with God knows how many comic fans; have been asking for Bane in every Batman film since his debut in
Knightfall .
And no, THIS doesn't count.
He’s one of my favorite villains in Batman’s pantheon, and I have no doubt that Nolan will do him justice in bringing him to the silver screen.
Curiously enough,
Tom Hardy
of Nolan’s
Inception ; is cast as the titular South American juicing genius.
While I honestly don’t
see
Bane in Hardy at first glance, my perception of his as an actor is strictly limited to his performance in Inception, so I don’t think it fair of me to pass judgment based on that alone.
Even so, Hardy’s physical presence seems rather puny when compared to the hulking physique of the character, not to mention I’d be curious to see if he’ll be able to pull of a South American accent, but these are questions that only come to mind given my love for the character.
... Tom Hardy everyone!
Aside from the glee that shoots through my heart as I think of how awesome it’s going to be to see one of my favorite comic villains brought to life on the big screen, the best part of casting Bane for The Dark Knight Rises, is the fact that his character brings a very different dynamic to the mix.
Batman Begins
and
The Dark Knight
featured numerous villains of Batman’s gallery of rogues, however with the exception of perhaps
Ra’s Al Ghul , none of them stood as
physical
match to the caped crusader.
I like you Carrey, but Batman would turn your face inside out with one punch.
While Bane has shown (in the comics) that he is very much on par with Batman in terms of intelligence and cunning, the element of his character that stands out the most is that he is physically as strong as, or stronger; than Batman.
Aside from
Amygdala ,
Killer Croc , and maybe a few others, Batman rarely has to contend with opponents that physically outmatch him, let alone one’s that can count to 5.
Man, I love that clip…
Much like how I’ve been waiting (and continue to wait…) for another
Superman
film to cash in on the amazing success of the wholly under-appreciated
Superman II
by giving him villains he can slug it out with, I’ve spent much of my life waiting for a Batman film to put him up against someone that can duke it out with the dark knight.
As my “Sequential Visual Narrative” teacher once told me:
“Superman is only fun when he has something to punch.”
Which is why this FAILED and should have been titled: "Superman Lifts Progressively Heavier Things"
While I’m of course excited to see what Christopher Nolan’s script has in mind for Bane, the comic fan in me can’t help wonder/worry how Tom “Fish Lips” Hardy will do when it comes to embodying the beast that is Bane.
As evidenced by Nolan’s casting methods since Batman Begins, he’s a man very much keen on casting his films with actors he’s comfortable/familiar with, or failing that; lots and lots of English people.
Seriously man, you try an’ count how many actors in his movies come from across the pond, and you’re likely to run out of fingers
and
toes.
Oh well, it’s probably a comfort thing; and based on his success in the industry up to this point, I’d say it’s working for him.
Anyway,
Catwoman
has also been cast for The Dark Knight Rises, with
Anne Hathaway
filling the role.
Anne Hathaway's Eyes: The Only Thing That Can Compete With Jennifer Garner's Forehead in terms of hogging a shot.
She’s a decent actress, and definitely has a way about her that seems appropriate for Selina Kyle; however aside from
Michelle Pfeiffer’s
multi-faceted performance in
Batman Returns , I bear no love for the character whatsoever.
Honestly, as of this point I’m on board for The Dark Knight Rises for Bane and Chris Nolan; that’s about it.
Oh yeah, and
Michael Caine , ’cause he’s fuckin’ pimp.
Michael Caine on any given Thursday. That's your mom on the left, by the way.
Anyway, that’s it for today, hopefully you’re all as excited/elated as I am for this one!
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2 ,
2012 ,
Amygdala ,
Anne Hathaway ,
Austin Powers ,
Azrael ,
Batman ,
Batman and Robin ,
Batman Begins ,
Big ,
Catowman ,
Christian Bale ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
eyes ,
film ,
Goldmember ,
Heath Ledger ,
Jennifer Garner ,
Jim Carrey ,
Killer Croc ,
Knightfall ,
Michael Caine ,
Michelle Pfeiffer ,
Movies ,
pimp ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
Returns ,
Superman ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Joker ,
The Riddler ,
Tim Burton
January 19, 2011 • 10:49 PM
1
I Miss The “Old” Metal Gear Theme…
I miss the
Metal Gear Solid
theme.
More specifically, the
old
Metal Gear Solid theme.
That’s not to say the
new
theme music is bad, (it’s not) I just feel the old theme was a whole helluva’ lot better.
The composition was more interesting, the tune catchier, and the overall “feel” of the track seemed to fit the series like a glove.
For those that are unaware, the original Metal Gear Solid theme, used in all of the games up until the
PSP
exclusive
Portable Ops ; was removed from the series due to implications that the track had been plagiarized from an existing composition.
Composed by
Tappi Iwase
AKA TAPPY, the theme made it’s debut as the background music of the promotional trailers for Metal Gear Solid, and was also featured as an alternate ending theme:
The original version of the Metal Gear Solid theme was entirely synthesized, and had a very electronic and, unfortunately; “cheap” sound to it despite it’s instrumentation being intentionally implemented for the purpose of simulating an orchestral feel.
Despite it’s somewhat primitive sound, (at least by today’s standards) the theme possessed a rare combination of energy and catchiness that make it synonymous with the series to this day.
While the Metal Gear Solid theme was first featured in the game of the same name, the first time I can recall hearing it was actually in
Konami’s
Beatmania
games on the orginal
Playstation .
I had a couple of friends that had “ Goldfingers ” for their Playstations, and I remember one of them being really into Beatmania and
Dance Dance Revolution .
While I honestly wasn’t too keen on either of those games, (still aren’t) I remember playing a lot of co-op Beatmania specifically to hear the remix of the Metal Gear theme:
That , was my introduction to the Metal Gear Solid theme.
As a remix, it’s actually kind of shitty; however the core sound of the theme manages to give the track a lot of strength and memorability.
Gotta’ love that English dude yelling random shit in the background though…
“ I’M-GONNA’-KICK-YOUR-ASS.  PLEASE-DON’T-KILL-THEM-ALL!”
*Ahem!* Moving on, I think the last time we got to hear the Metal Gear Solid theme music, was in the sequel;
Sons of Liberty .
Combining TAPPY’s previous motif with Hollywood film composer
Harry
“I do military themes that sound like
Hans Zimmer’s
early 90’s work”
Gregson-William’s , this iteration of the theme represents my favorite version of it:
Essentially split into 2 halves, the first portion of the composition is essentially an orchestral and synthesized re-imagining of TAPPY’s original motif, while the second half is a decidedly more somber military march-esque tune composed primarily by Gregson-Williams.
The end result is a powerful and exhilarating theme that I had hoped would endure for years to come.
Sadly, this was not the case.
As mentioned earlier, facts surfaced regarding the composition of TAPPY’s portion of the theme that heavily implied that the tune was stolen from Russian composer
Georgy
Sviridov’s
“The Winter Road”:
Most likely fearing a possible lawsuit, Konami pulled the tune from all subsequent Metal Gear Solid related productions, including
Super Smash Bros. Brawl .
With the “old” theme gone, Konami ended up using Gregson-Williams’ half of the composition as the official theme of the series from that point forward.
As I said earlier, I really don’t have a problem with the “new” Metal Gear Solid theme, truth be told it’s rather good as far as themes go; it’s just that it simply doesn’t fit as well as it’s predecessor.
It’s like
John William’s
Superman theme :
You can make new movies, and you can reboot the series all you want, but the day you stop using Johnny’s theme music; is the day I stop believing a man can fly.
The original theme bore an energy and sense of urgency that really sucked you in.
If you closed your eyes listening to the Metal Gear Solid 2 version of it, I swear you could see
Solid Snake
running around chokin’ bitches in your head.
The “new” theme, which bears more than a few of Gregson-Williams’ somewhat one-dimensional compositional touches; feels a little slow and overblown if you ask me.
That being said, the
Snake Eater
version of Gregson-Williams’ theme was actually quite good:
Essentially a medley of most the major themes used in the game, the full length version of the Snake Eater theme was an intense and far more organic sounding track than previous compositions in the series.
Let it be known, the heavy percussive segment towards the end of this track is one of my favorite action cues in the entire series.
The instrumentation of the track did well to keep in line with the game’s dated Cold War setting and decidedly more somber tone by making use of a richer sounding orchestra, as well as a particularly effective acoustic guitar towards the end.
To date, the acoustic guitar version of the “new” theme remains my favorite version of it.
The Metal Gear Solid theme variant used in
Metal Gear Solid 4 , renamed “The Metal Gear Saga,” left me with a bittersweet taste in my mouth:
While the core theme was retained, and the acoustic guitar element reused with the addition of a bugle for effect; the bulk of the track felt excessively busy and scattered.
The synthesized elements in particular stand out as being particularly noisy and extraneous, such that the track actually weakens the intensity of the sequence it plays over.
The Metal Gear Saga was used in a fight scene towards the end of the game, and I remember feeling genuinely disappointed upon hearing it.
Make no mistake, that scene was amazing; but the music that played over it, wasn’t the one I had been humming to myself while I was playing the game…
While I knew ahead of time about the lawsuit regarding the Metal Gear Solid theme music, I played through Metal Gear Solid 4 hoping against hope that Konami would sneak it in there in some capacity.
The “new” theme is passable, but suffers from fairly generic composition, largely brought on by Harry Gregson-Williams’ tendency to recycle his music…
A LOT.
In my book, the “old” theme is the one
true
Metal Gear Solid theme music.
It’s what I hear in my head whenever I think of the series, and it’s what I scour the net for remixes of whenever I’m in the mood for good background music to write to.
Filed under:
Comics ,
Games ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2 ,
3 ,
4 ,
Comics ,
composer ,
DC ,
film ,
Georgy Sviridov ,
Goldfinger ,
Guns of the Patriots ,
Hans Zimmer ,
Harry Gregson-Williams ,
Hideo Kojima ,
John Williams ,
Konami ,
lawsuit ,
Metal Gear ,
Mod Chip ,
movie ,
new ,
old ,
plagiarism ,
Playstation ,
Portable Ops ,
PS2 ,
PS3 ,
PSP ,
Russian ,
Snake Eater ,
Solid ,
Solid Snake ,
Sons of Liberty ,
Sony ,
stolen ,
Superman ,
Tappi Iwase ,
Tappy ,
Winter Road
January 18, 2011 • 9:31 PM
1
Summon Tactical Panda!!!
This, my friends; is what happens when I have
absolutely nothing
to write about.
No videogame news, no boxing news, no movie news, no silly articles, nada.
Oh well, instead you get treated to shitty photoshop art of Tactical Pandas.
Enjoy!
Filed under:
Boxing ,
Games ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
bored ,
boxing ,
card ,
funny ,
game ,
Magic the Gathering ,
modern ,
Movies ,
news ,
Photoshop ,
silly ,
Tactical Panda ,
trading ,
videogames ,
war ,
writer's block
January 17, 2011 • 8:55 PM
3
Announcements, HOOOOOO!!!!!!!!
Alright folks, today the Azn Badger is gonna’ be a lazy bastard and take this opportunity to dole out a few announcements/orders that you would do well to follow up on.
ANNOUNCEMENT #1:
Wow, I guess good lighting does wonders for shitty makeup.
Remember that ill-fated indie financed trailer for a possible Mortal Kombat movie that made the rounds on Youtube awhile back?
Well, in case you don’t,
here’s a link to a lengthy article that I pounded out regarding my thoughts on it .
Anyway, as it turns out, that particular video clip; while permanently removed from Youtube, went on to have not-so-ill a fate after all.
After much fussing, bellyaching, and talk of lawsuits, director Kevin Tancharoen and his crew have finally been given the greenlight to begin work on a Mortal Kombat film project, though the format is somewhat different from what was originally conceived.
Instead of a feature film, direct to video or otherwise; the project is going to be carried out as an online
series , most likely for use in promoting the series’ upcoming newest installment.
The videos are expected to hit the web sometime in April, and I for one am looking forward to watching them.
Larnell Stovall is kind of a hot commodity in the fight choreography game as of now, so any chance I get to see his work is one I’ll be sure to capitalize on at every opportunity.
(Thanks to the people at Twitchfilm.com for
posting the article that tipped me off to this hot news !)
ANNOUNCEMENT #2:
Ip Man 2 is coming to theaters in the US on January 28!
A long time ago I posted
a huge article outlining my appreciation for Donnie Yen .
It was one of the first major articles I posted, and to date; remains one of the most viewed ones as well.
In that article, I made note of the fact that I was frustrated by the fact that despite my love for Donnie Yen movies, and indeed, kung fu movies in general; I’ve never really been given a chance to view any of them on the silver screen.
While I’ve owned Ip Man 2 for some time now, on 2 different formats; the prospect of seeing a film
starring
my hero Donnie Yen, on the big screen, is one that I feel I can’t afford to miss.
Theatrical releases of legitimate kung fu movies in the US are
extremely
rare, but for all intents and purposes this may end up being the
only
movie starring Donnie Yen that may ever be released here.
Rest assured, I intend to recruit a small army of friends, and plop their asses down in the theater to see this one, regardless of whether they’ve seen the first one or not.
Anyway, that’s all I’ve got at the moment, make sure to
Filed under:
Kung Fu ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2 ,
announcement ,
Azn Badger ,
blog ,
Donnie Yen ,
Fighting ,
film ,
Ip Man ,
January 28 ,
kung fu ,
Mortal Kombat ,
movie ,
Movies ,
news ,
Poster ,
Rebirth. Larnell Stovall ,
release ,
theatrical ,
Thundercats ,
Twitch ,
US
January 16, 2011 • 9:27 PM
0
The Roast Poster
Pictured: The poster that sidelined me from posting for 2 days.
A few days ago I mentioned that I was unable to get much writing done on account of a photoshop project that
my brother
asked me to do for him.
The project in question was a poster/flyer for a comedy roast he was going to be doing of
a coworker of his .
It took me about 2 days of hard work, but I think I managed to do my brother proud.
At the outset of things, I asked my brother to lay out any particulars or essential elements he had in mind for the poster, to which he responded by telling me to just go nuts and do whatever I felt worked best.
*Sigh* I hate it when people tell me that, ’cause then it leaves me with no one to blame my fuck ups on but myself.
Oh well, I suppose it’s better than someone slinging a laundry list of bullshit demands at you form the outset.
In any case, as you’ll no doubt see above, I did in fact go nuts with this one; hopefully for the better.
Oh yeah, if you’re wondering why the fuck
Nicolas Cage
is on there, here’s a rundown of my thought process:
On the other hand, does Cameron Fucking Poe really need an explanation?
I wanted to throw something silly and over the top on the poster, y’know;  for effect.
I tapped my temple for a minute or 2, scanning the innumerable pop culture references housed in my skull for something
epicly
EPIC
in terms of over the top-ness.
And wouldn’t you know it,
The Wicker Man
was the first (and funniest) thing to pop into my head.
That’s
why Nic Cage is on the poster.
Another thing mentioning about the poster, is that the badger wearing the samurai helmet is likely going to be the banner/mascot for this blog whenever I decide to start, y’know; paying for it.
My brother suggested that I take the time to make a personal stamp or mark for myself for promotional purposes, with his initial suggestion being something along the lines of a badger face on the M. Bison hat in place of the skull emblem.
Pictured: A shitty cosplay M. Bison hat.
While I was totally on board for the Bison Badger emblem idea, (after all, we
are
brothers) I ended up doing the samurai helmet thing instead ’cause I felt the “Azn” part of the blog title should be represented as much as the “badger” part.
Thanks for the suggestion bro’, got thinkin’ all big n’shit now.
Anyway, in case you are truly fuckin’ dense or something, the names and faces on the poster have been changed in the interest of preserving the subject’s privacy/modesty.
Hope everyone likes the poster as much as I do!
Filed under:
Games ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
art ,
Azn Badger ,
Badger ,
banner ,
baseball ,
bear ,
blog ,
brother ,
Cameron Poe ,
Capcom ,
comedy ,
Con Air ,
Dom DeLuise ,
emblem ,
favor ,
funny ,
hat ,
Ichiro Suzuki ,
kick ,
M. Bison ,
mascot ,
Nicolas Cage ,
over the top ,
Photoshop ,
Poster ,
project ,
punch ,
roast ,
silly ,
Street Fighter ,
suit ,
symbol ,
The Wicker Man ,
Vega
January 15, 2011 • 8:52 PM
0
I Just Bought My First Rare Comic
Pictured: Hopefully this won't be me in the near future...
I don’t consider myself a “collector” of comic books.
None of the comics I own are of any value, nor do I operate from the belief that any of them will accrue any value at any future date.
Comic’s worth are typically derived from their rarity, their condition, and ultimately how limited their production run was, all factors that the current age of mass produced collected editions has done well to eliminate.
Regarding my own comic buying habits, I’m a trade-only buyer of comics; meaning I don’t purchase loose comics off the newstands.
That right there is often viewed as borderline blasphemous behavior on the part of anyone that could consider themselves a comic collector.
Thank you
Collected Editions
for standing up for us trade-only guys…  Oh yeah,
and
for publishing
my guest review
awhile back.
When you factor in my trade-only habits with the fact that I buy comics solely for the purpose of reading and enjoying them, you have the makings of a man that is more of a casual comic enthusiast/reader than anything else.
That being said, today I received a package in the mail that represents my first purchase of what some would consider a fairly rare or valuable comic.
The comic in question, is the trade paperback collection of the 1996
Batman
crossover,
Batman: Legacy .
Mmmm, rare....
The story itself is not regarded as being within the top 25 of Batman’s best, however in my case; it was the
premise
moreso than the quality of the writing or art that drew me to Legacy.
Supposedly acting as a follow-up to the 1993
Knightfall
storyarc, an epic and sprawling story that served as one of the most important of my youth.
As I’ve mentioned before on this blog, the early 90’s were a tumultuous and ugly period in comic history; one punctuated by the creation of outlandish and violent characters, as well as the implementation of more than a few shocking publicity stunts on the part of Marvel and DC in an attempt to sustain their dwindling sales numbers.
Needless to say, “shock” was the order of the day for 90’s comic books.
I grew up watching
Doomsday
kill
Superman .
EPIC.
I grew up watching
Bane
break Batman’s back.
EVEN MORE EPIC.
I grew up watching
Carnage
cut a swath through the
Marvel
universe with reckless abandon.
Fun, but nowhere near epic...
These sort of “MTV Generation” characters, and their respective homicidal antics; served as my introduction into the world of comics, and as such; I bear a great deal of nostalgia for them.
As much as comic fans tend to deride some of these characters, I for one will never get tired of them.
Except maybe Carnage, he’s kinda’ overstayed his welcome…
*Sigh* Sadly, no one stays dead in comic books...
That being said, the major factor that drew me to Batman: Legacy, despite it’s fairly substantial (for me anyway) price tag; was the fact that it features the only legitimate rematch between Batman and Bane.
The 2 have encountered one another several times since Bane’s first appearance in Knightfall, though Legacy represents the only time they actually
battle
one another.
Ever since I heard of Batman: Legacy several years ago, I told myself:
“That’s something I have to see.”
Like I said, the story of Legacy isn’t supposed to be anything to write home about, but the prospect of a rematch between one of my favorite
DC
villains and my
favorite
DC hero was something I just couldn’t shy away from seeing.
Not from Legacy, but a fun image nonetheless.
In the comics, it was always speculated that Batman was physically on par with Bane, with the notable exception being a disparity in their physical strength levels when Bane was on Venom.
At the time Legacy takes place, Bane has long since renounced the use of Venom, which; combined with the fact that Batman is likely in much better physical condition than he was during Knightfall, (he was severely fatigued when he first fought Bane) adds up to a contest of equals that, in my mind; has all the makings of a terrific read.
Haha, listen to me ramble on about a comic book match up like it’s some sort of real-life boxing match or some shit…
Anyway , I’ve been waiting to buy a copy of Legacy for years now, with the price being the sole prohibitive factor in me doing so up until now.
I’ve seen Legacy listed for anywhere from $80-180.
I’m sorry, but as much as I love comics, I simply can’t justify that sort of expenditure for a book.
Then again, I am known to be Azn, and therefore
CHEAP :
Too expensive.
I'll wait till it's on sale... And a pretty lady is selling it...
Luckily, I happened upon a listing last week for $45, which while much more expensive than any of the other comics on my shelf, even the heft hardcover ones; was a price I was more than willing to pay for something I’d waited so long to get my hands on.
Hah, I hope this isn’t becoming a trend, otherwise I might just find myself happy and surrounded by comic books.
Oh yeah, and
POOR .
Anyway , as of writing this, I have yet to so much as crack this bad boy open.
Hopefully Batman: Legacy proves to be worth all of it’s $45 price tag!
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Carnage ,
Collected Editions ,
collection ,
collector ,
Comic Book Guy ,
Comics ,
DC ,
Death of Superman ,
Doomsday ,
hardcover ,
Legacy ,
Marvel ,
Maximum ,
paperback ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
Rare ,
Spider-Man ,
Superman ,
The Sentry ,
The Simpsons ,
trade ,
Venom
January 14, 2011 • 5:27 PM
3
Thoughts On The New Spider-Man Costume
Pictured: Andrew Garfield wearing the new Spidey suit.
A few days ago, we got our first glimpse of actor
Andrew Garfield
wearing the new
Spider-Man
costume for music video director
Marc Webb’s
upcoming reboot to the film series .
Pictured above is a promotional image I snagged from the most awesome of film news sites,
Twitchfilm.com
(Sorry/Thanks!).
While I honestly can’t say anything as to Garfield’s acting ability, as he’s yet another one of those up-and-coming “young” actors that I don’t know a thing about; my initial reaction to seeing him in the Spider costume were almost 100% positive.
To be fair though, I’ve always had a thing for Spider-Man’s costume, in all of it’s iterations; so me being happy with this really isn’t that big a deal.
Tee hee, John Romita Sr. Spider-Man looks like he's wearing pajamas...
Anyway, Garfield’s trim and straight body type lends itself well to the “nerdy everyman” nature of the character, but more importantly; the design of the suit is quite striking, and more than a little original.
The etching and fine details in the texture of the suit are truly inspired, and while the “web” pattern is significantly downplayed from previous iterations of the suit; in some ways I view this as a plus.
As with the “web” pattern, the spider emblem in the center of the chest seems more thinner, more splindly, and ultimately less impactful; a design choice that works well given that it matches the narrow frame of the actor wearing it.
While I’m on the topic of the chest emblem, I feel it’s also worth noting that the bottom legs of the spider emblem, that is; the ones that angle straight downward, seem weak to me.
I think it has something to do with the fact that the other 6 legs on the emblem are all angled or curved, but that pair of straight legs just looks silly to me.
I don’t know, maybe it has something to do with the fact that they’re pointed at the guy’s crotch:
Jus’ sayin’ is all…
Anyway, probably my favorite design element of the suit is the unique detail put into the forearm and hand portions of it:
If you look close, there’s a few neat little deviations from the norm to be found, like streaks of blue running through the top portions of the forearm area and along the thumb joints range of motion.
Also, the “web” pattern seems to fade out completely in the hands; making for a seemingly more “practical” spider suit.
I really like this design, though the lighting (and bloody makeup effects) in this promotional image feels a little “dark” for my tastes.
Though, my worries could very well be for naught, being as the previous Spider-Man films
also
featured these elements in it’s aesthetic, albeit only in small doses.
Here’s hoping this proves to be the case in the reboot as well.
Don’t get me wrong, I’m a regular reader of
Batman
and
The Punisher , so “dark” is something I’m very much accustomed to dealing with (and enjoying); but when it comes to Spider-Man, “dark” is not the design aesthetic that comes to mind.
Same goes for "Emo"...
Spider-Man, to me; has always been about celebrating the “gee-whiz” factor of the comics of old, y’know; the more colorful and zany stuff as opposed to the dark and brooding.
For this reason, I found that I really liked
Sam Raimi’s
Spider-Man films , particularly the
2nd one .
The Train Sequence: The Best Spider-Man Fight EVER
The storytelling could get muddled at times, and Raimi’s insistence on diverting the story in favor of silly asides (see “Emo Spider-Man” above) could get tedious, but from a visual and casting standpoint, I found the film’s look and frenetic energy to be well-suited for bringing Spider-Man to the big screen.
He kind of dropped the ball on
3 , at least in the second half anyway; but nobody’s perfect.
I don’t know anything about the new Spider-Man reboot, other than the fact that one of my favorite villains,
The Lizard ; once again
might
be in it, but my biggest hope is that it retains the “fun” that has always made Spider-Man a standout among superhero franchises.
Really, that’s all I ask from a Spider-Man story.
Fun, action, and a little bit of heart, nothing more.
They’ve got the costume down, now let’s see if they can make a decent movie around it…
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Action ,
aesthetic ,
analysis ,
Andrew Garfield ,
Batman ,
Columbia ,
Comics ,
costume ,
design ,
film ,
franchise ,
John Romita ,
Marc Webb ,
Marvel ,
movie ,
reboot ,
review ,
Sam Raimi ,
series ,
Sony ,
Spider-Man ,
Sr. ,
The Lizard ,
The Punisher ,
train sequence ,
Twitch
January 13, 2011 • 5:37 PM
2
How Could I Forget Merantau!?
Merantau
got a US home video release a few weeks ago.
I know what you’re thinking:
“What the fuck is Merantau, and why the fuck should I give a damn?”
Merantau is an Indonesian martial arts film, and you should be mindful to give a damn because it’s a martial arts film I’ve been eagerly anticipating for some time now.
Showcasing the Indonesian martial art of
Silat , as performed by the film’s breakout action star-in-the-making,
Iko Uwais ; the film looks to be a solid entry in the martial arts subgenre.
I've heard talk of "next big thing" surrounding Iko Uwais.
He's already got another movie lined up, so we'll see...
The trailer (from over a year ago) gave me the impression that the film was of the classic “country boy goes to the city, is forced to beat the shit out of city-folk” storyline, but with the added (and welcome) twist of being extremely well-shot, and possessed of surprisingly imaginative and varied fight sequences.
See for yourself:
Pretty impressive, eh?
To be perfectly honest, the first thing that aroused my interest when I caught word of Merantau, was the simple fact that it was an Indonesian production.
In my youth, I was fascinated by Indonesia, largely due to the famed Komodo Dragon being a fixture of the archipelago.
Pictured: The Godzilla of the Animal Kingdom.
While my interest started with the wildlife, I went on to study some of the culture, food, art, and even shared class time in college with a
gamelan
group.
Of course, me being me; I also took time to look into Silat, a beautiful and stylistically varied martial art that hasn’t gotten much exposure in the states.
I have
my dad
to thank for introducing me to Silat, as he was the one that first told me of it.
Merantau stands as the first Indonesian film I’ve had any reason to get excited about, and more importantly; the first I believe I will have seen.
For whatever reason, the release date of this film slipped my mind; but rest assured, I will seek it out, and I will (hopefully) enjoy the shit out of it.
The movie got Best Film at Action Fest 2010, so in the martial arts movie community; it’s a major player.
My expectations are high for this one, so expect a very critical review in the near future.
Filed under:
Kung Fu ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Action ,
Action Fest ,
college ,
Dragon ,
Fighting ,
gamelan ,
Harimau ,
Iko Uwais ,
Indonesia ,
Jakarta ,
Komodo ,
kung fu ,
martial arts ,
Merantau ,
movie ,
Silat ,
Sumatra
January 12, 2011 • 10:27 PM
0
STILL Poster-ing… Take It Away, Farley.
Yup, still photoshop-ing the poster for my brother.
He suggested I make a banner/icon/logo, and being as he’s my older/wiser brother; I’m feel it’s in my best interest to follow his advice.
Doing so effectively doubles my workload at the moment, but I’m happy with how things are turning out so far.
Truth be told, all of this could’ve probably been done in a night had it not been for WORK getting in the way of my schedule.
Anyway, I’ll probably finish this stuff late tonight or sometime tomorrow, so in the meantime please enjoy this most awesome of Farley clips:
CLICK HERE
Filed under:
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
art ,
bees ,
brother ,
car ,
Chris Farley ,
comedy ,
David Spade ,
driving ,
funny ,
Patrick Swayze ,
Photoshop ,
Poster ,
project ,
skit ,
SNL ,
Tommy Boy
« Previous
Next »
Subscribe in a reader
Donate
About
About
An EPIC Tribute to the Greatness that is Donnie Yen
Azn Badger’s Top 25 Best NES Tracks
MASSIVE Summary of Mega Monster Battle: Ultra Galaxy Legend
Mega Man 1-8: Who’s the Best MAN!!!???
Salute To Time Crisis
The Top 10 Best Overkills in Movies
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
The Top 10 Videogame Songs
The Top 5 Traumatic Deaths in Movies
Recent Posts
The Hapa Bro-Cast 02/24/2015
And Now, English People Fighting… With Cats.
Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot Death Reel
A Nightmare On Elm Street Death Reel
Friday The 13th Death Reel
Sean Bean Death Reel
Space Ace Death Reel
Braindead 13 Death Reel
Archive
February 2015  (1)
February 2012  (1)
January 2012  (29)
December 2011  (31)
November 2011  (30)
October 2011  (31)
September 2011  (30)
August 2011  (31)
July 2011  (31)
June 2011  (30)
May 2011  (31)
April 2011  (30)
March 2011  (31)
February 2011  (28)
January 2011  (31)
December 2010  (31)
November 2010  (30)
October 2010  (31)
September 2010  (30)
August 2010  (31)
July 2010  (31)
June 2010  (30)
May 2010  (31)
April 2010  (9)
Tags 2
3
4
Action
anime
Arnold Schwarzenegger
Azn Badger
Batman
blog
Boss
boxing
Capcom
card
Comics
DC
Donnie Yen
fight
Fighting
film
films
funny
game
Games
gaming
Godzilla
Hulk Hogan
Japanese
Jurassic Park
Konami
kung fu
Let's Play
list
Magic
manga
Marvel
Mega Man
Michael Bay
MMA
movie
Movies
music
NES
Nintendo
Photoshop
platformer
Playstation
playthrough
PS3
review
Rocky
shooter
sidescroller
Sony
Spider-Man
Star Wars
Super
Superman
Sylvester Stallone
The Gathering
The Rock
Toho
Tokusatsu
Top 10
trading
Transformers
UFC
Ultimate Warrior
video
videogame
videogames
WCW
wrestling
WWE
WWF
Youtube
Meta
Register
Log in
Valid
XHTML
XFN
WordPress
Links
4th Dimension Computers
Another Sunny Morning
Ava Waits, Holistic Health and Nutrition Counselor
Channel 101
Channel 102
Christian Carvajal's Blog
CHUBB
Collected Editions
Coup De Cinema Official Website
DavidALudwig.com
Fear Nought Publishing
Games21.com, Free Games
Hapstance Films
Kotaku, The Gamer's Guide
Kraken Design
Kung Fu Cinema
Love HK Film
Maxboxing.com – The Ultimate Boxing Experience
My Deviant Art
My Youtube
Panda Color
Panda Smash's Guide to Not Sucking
Politics, Economics, and Pop
Preston Porter Video Production
Riot Prints
Sci Fi Japan
Super Sports Bros. World
The Spoony Experiment
Topless Robot
Twitch Film
Yesasia.com
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Grid Focus Theme .
Follow
Follow “Azn Badger's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 91 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com