Ra’s Al Ghul | Azn Badger's Blog
Azn Badger's Blog
What About the Lysine Contingency…?
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
March 2, 2011 • 7:53 PM
3
Thoughts On The Dark Knight Rises Rumor Mill
Jim Lee Batman FTW.
I happened upon
an article on IGN
earlier today that ruminated on some possible plot details of
Christopher Nolan’s
upcoming
Batman
three-quel,
The Dark Knight Rises .
Said article made mention of
Talia al Ghul
and the
League of Shadows
(“Assassins” in the comics) likely having a role in the central plot of the film, which most likely points to
Tom Hardy’s
previously announced role as
Bane
taking a hit in screen time and dramatic relevance.
"Bane takes backseat to NO ONE!!!"
My personal objections to this potential snubbing of Bane aside, I honestly feel that Talia could be an interesting element to the overarching story of the Nolan-verse of Batman lore.
With
Catwoman
already announced for the cast of the film, we now have
2
very potent femme fatales of Batman’s rogues present in 1 film.
Combine that with a Bruce Wayne who’s very likely still shaky around the lady-folk due to his previous love getting, y’know; blown the fuck up in the
previous movie , and you have the makings of a very intricate and deceptive love triangle.
Eew! Batman has cooties!
In addition to this, Talia serves as an effective anchor to
Batman Begins
in the form of her familial relation to the primary villain of that film,
Ra’s al Ghul ; making for an epic plot thread that, if executed properly; will lend a sense cohesiveness to the whole trilogy.
While nothing is certain, least of all the plot elements mentioned above; the thought of Bane being cast as anything less than a primary villain feels like kind of a letdown.
When Bane was initially announced as a villain for The Dark Knight Rises, I was hoping against hope that he was going to be
the
villain, that is; the main foil for Batman regardless of whatever notables of his rogues gallery ended up being cast in the film.
Upon reading that Talia was a possible element of the film though, it makes it hard to picture Bane as little more than the muscle, or worse yet; a pawn to the machinations of the League of Shadows.
Despite my
personal
disappointment in said news, (anything short of a live-action
Knightfall
will probably fall short in my eyes…) it’s interesting to note that this particular plot rumor actually follows the Batman comics pretty closely.
Not long ago, I was fortunate to acquire a copy of the somewhat rare Batman story arc entitled
Legacy .
I PAID!
In Legacy, the Bat-Family (including Catwoman) is charged with preventing Ra’s Al Ghul, his daughter Talia, Bane, and the entire League of Shadows
from unleashing a catastrophic plague on humankind.
While the story is indeed “comic booky” to the point of being unfeasible for live-action adaptation, the
one
element of the story that drew to pick it up, was that Legacy was known to contain the
only
legitimate rematch between Batman and Bane post-Knightfall.
While I honestly can say, grudgingly; that the rematch was not at all worth the
considerable
price of admission, it was fascinating to see Bane incorporated into a Ra’s Al Ghul story nonetheless.
In Legacy, Bane’s role was that of a stand-in for Bruce Wayne as Ra’s Al Ghul’s potential heir.
A key storyline that has often been used in interactions between Batman and Ra’s Al Ghul has always been that of Ra’s wishing to marry Talia off to Bruce and have him take control of the League of Shadows.
Hell, at one point Batman actually went through with all of the above; only to turn his back on Ra’s and Talia after a moral disagreement.
"Moral Disagreement" of course being code for "Naked Swordfight."
The point is, Bane is and always has been somewhat of a cracked mirror image of Batman, such that their origins and motivations are nearly opposite, but their abilities and steadfast natures are nearly identical.
Going with this line of thinking, the writers cleverly wrote Bane into Legacy as Ra’s new heir, as well as future husband to Talia.
If Christopher Nolan and his crew were to associate Bane with the League of Shadows in a fairly logical (by comic book standards) manner, such as the one listed above; I see no reason why it wouldn’t work out.
My hope remains that Tom Hardy is given free reign to take center stage as
the
villain of The Dark Knight Rises, but with
Anne Hathaway’s
Catwoman, the yet to be cast role of Talia, and
Joseph Gordon-Levitt’s
yet to be announced (or confirmed) role in the film also floating around somewhere in the script; it seems unrealistic to think that
anyone
will be claiming this film as their own.
Much like every Christopher Nolan film of the post-Batman Begins era, I’d expect The Dark Knight Rises to be very much an ensemble affair, making it unrealistic to expect a singular, commanding performance from anyone in the cast ala
Heath Ledger
and
Jack Nicholson’s
Joker (s).
Bane’s a heavy for sure, but his charisma and personality can’t hold a candle to the endless possibilities that a character like The Joker presents to actors.
That being said, I’m a Batman nut,
and
a Bane fanatic; so The Dark Knight Rises is basically the biggest comic book movie
ever
for me.
Gonna’ be hard to wait for this one…
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Anne Hathaway ,
article ,
Assassins ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Batman Begins ,
books ,
Catwoman ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
film ,
Heath Ledger ,
IGN ,
Jack Nicholson ,
Joker ,
Joseph Gordon-Levitt ,
Knightfall ,
League of Shadows ,
Movies ,
plot ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
rumor ,
speculation ,
storyline ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
Tom Hardy. Talia al Ghul
January 20, 2011 • 5:47 PM
2
Bane + Christopher Nolan = I Love You Christopher Nolan
It finally happened folks.
Bane
has been officially cast for
Christopher Nolan’s
next, and likely last;
Batman
film,
The Dark Knight Rises .
When I first read about it, I was floored.
I, along with God knows how many comic fans; have been asking for Bane in every Batman film since his debut in
Knightfall .
And no, THIS doesn't count.
He’s one of my favorite villains in Batman’s pantheon, and I have no doubt that Nolan will do him justice in bringing him to the silver screen.
Curiously enough,
Tom Hardy
of Nolan’s
Inception ; is cast as the titular South American juicing genius.
While I honestly don’t
see
Bane in Hardy at first glance, my perception of his as an actor is strictly limited to his performance in Inception, so I don’t think it fair of me to pass judgment based on that alone.
Even so, Hardy’s physical presence seems rather puny when compared to the hulking physique of the character, not to mention I’d be curious to see if he’ll be able to pull of a South American accent, but these are questions that only come to mind given my love for the character.
... Tom Hardy everyone!
Aside from the glee that shoots through my heart as I think of how awesome it’s going to be to see one of my favorite comic villains brought to life on the big screen, the best part of casting Bane for The Dark Knight Rises, is the fact that his character brings a very different dynamic to the mix.
Batman Begins
and
The Dark Knight
featured numerous villains of Batman’s gallery of rogues, however with the exception of perhaps
Ra’s Al Ghul , none of them stood as
physical
match to the caped crusader.
I like you Carrey, but Batman would turn your face inside out with one punch.
While Bane has shown (in the comics) that he is very much on par with Batman in terms of intelligence and cunning, the element of his character that stands out the most is that he is physically as strong as, or stronger; than Batman.
Aside from
Amygdala ,
Killer Croc , and maybe a few others, Batman rarely has to contend with opponents that physically outmatch him, let alone one’s that can count to 5.
Man, I love that clip…
Much like how I’ve been waiting (and continue to wait…) for another
Superman
film to cash in on the amazing success of the wholly under-appreciated
Superman II
by giving him villains he can slug it out with, I’ve spent much of my life waiting for a Batman film to put him up against someone that can duke it out with the dark knight.
As my “Sequential Visual Narrative” teacher once told me:
“Superman is only fun when he has something to punch.”
Which is why this FAILED and should have been titled: "Superman Lifts Progressively Heavier Things"
While I’m of course excited to see what Christopher Nolan’s script has in mind for Bane, the comic fan in me can’t help wonder/worry how Tom “Fish Lips” Hardy will do when it comes to embodying the beast that is Bane.
As evidenced by Nolan’s casting methods since Batman Begins, he’s a man very much keen on casting his films with actors he’s comfortable/familiar with, or failing that; lots and lots of English people.
Seriously man, you try an’ count how many actors in his movies come from across the pond, and you’re likely to run out of fingers
and
toes.
Oh well, it’s probably a comfort thing; and based on his success in the industry up to this point, I’d say it’s working for him.
Anyway,
Catwoman
has also been cast for The Dark Knight Rises, with
Anne Hathaway
filling the role.
Anne Hathaway's Eyes: The Only Thing That Can Compete With Jennifer Garner's Forehead in terms of hogging a shot.
She’s a decent actress, and definitely has a way about her that seems appropriate for Selina Kyle; however aside from
Michelle Pfeiffer’s
multi-faceted performance in
Batman Returns , I bear no love for the character whatsoever.
Honestly, as of this point I’m on board for The Dark Knight Rises for Bane and Chris Nolan; that’s about it.
Oh yeah, and
Michael Caine , ’cause he’s fuckin’ pimp.
Michael Caine on any given Thursday. That's your mom on the left, by the way.
Anyway, that’s it for today, hopefully you’re all as excited/elated as I am for this one!
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2 ,
2012 ,
Amygdala ,
Anne Hathaway ,
Austin Powers ,
Azrael ,
Batman ,
Batman and Robin ,
Batman Begins ,
Big ,
Catowman ,
Christian Bale ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
eyes ,
film ,
Goldmember ,
Heath Ledger ,
Jennifer Garner ,
Jim Carrey ,
Killer Croc ,
Knightfall ,
Michael Caine ,
Michelle Pfeiffer ,
Movies ,
pimp ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
Returns ,
Superman ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Joker ,
The Riddler ,
Tim Burton
January 15, 2011 • 8:52 PM
0
I Just Bought My First Rare Comic
Pictured: Hopefully this won't be me in the near future...
I don’t consider myself a “collector” of comic books.
None of the comics I own are of any value, nor do I operate from the belief that any of them will accrue any value at any future date.
Comic’s worth are typically derived from their rarity, their condition, and ultimately how limited their production run was, all factors that the current age of mass produced collected editions has done well to eliminate.
Regarding my own comic buying habits, I’m a trade-only buyer of comics; meaning I don’t purchase loose comics off the newstands.
That right there is often viewed as borderline blasphemous behavior on the part of anyone that could consider themselves a comic collector.
Thank you
Collected Editions
for standing up for us trade-only guys…  Oh yeah,
and
for publishing
my guest review
awhile back.
When you factor in my trade-only habits with the fact that I buy comics solely for the purpose of reading and enjoying them, you have the makings of a man that is more of a casual comic enthusiast/reader than anything else.
That being said, today I received a package in the mail that represents my first purchase of what some would consider a fairly rare or valuable comic.
The comic in question, is the trade paperback collection of the 1996
Batman
crossover,
Batman: Legacy .
Mmmm, rare....
The story itself is not regarded as being within the top 25 of Batman’s best, however in my case; it was the
premise
moreso than the quality of the writing or art that drew me to Legacy.
Supposedly acting as a follow-up to the 1993
Knightfall
storyarc, an epic and sprawling story that served as one of the most important of my youth.
As I’ve mentioned before on this blog, the early 90’s were a tumultuous and ugly period in comic history; one punctuated by the creation of outlandish and violent characters, as well as the implementation of more than a few shocking publicity stunts on the part of Marvel and DC in an attempt to sustain their dwindling sales numbers.
Needless to say, “shock” was the order of the day for 90’s comic books.
I grew up watching
Doomsday
kill
Superman .
EPIC.
I grew up watching
Bane
break Batman’s back.
EVEN MORE EPIC.
I grew up watching
Carnage
cut a swath through the
Marvel
universe with reckless abandon.
Fun, but nowhere near epic...
These sort of “MTV Generation” characters, and their respective homicidal antics; served as my introduction into the world of comics, and as such; I bear a great deal of nostalgia for them.
As much as comic fans tend to deride some of these characters, I for one will never get tired of them.
Except maybe Carnage, he’s kinda’ overstayed his welcome…
*Sigh* Sadly, no one stays dead in comic books...
That being said, the major factor that drew me to Batman: Legacy, despite it’s fairly substantial (for me anyway) price tag; was the fact that it features the only legitimate rematch between Batman and Bane.
The 2 have encountered one another several times since Bane’s first appearance in Knightfall, though Legacy represents the only time they actually
battle
one another.
Ever since I heard of Batman: Legacy several years ago, I told myself:
“That’s something I have to see.”
Like I said, the story of Legacy isn’t supposed to be anything to write home about, but the prospect of a rematch between one of my favorite
DC
villains and my
favorite
DC hero was something I just couldn’t shy away from seeing.
Not from Legacy, but a fun image nonetheless.
In the comics, it was always speculated that Batman was physically on par with Bane, with the notable exception being a disparity in their physical strength levels when Bane was on Venom.
At the time Legacy takes place, Bane has long since renounced the use of Venom, which; combined with the fact that Batman is likely in much better physical condition than he was during Knightfall, (he was severely fatigued when he first fought Bane) adds up to a contest of equals that, in my mind; has all the makings of a terrific read.
Haha, listen to me ramble on about a comic book match up like it’s some sort of real-life boxing match or some shit…
Anyway , I’ve been waiting to buy a copy of Legacy for years now, with the price being the sole prohibitive factor in me doing so up until now.
I’ve seen Legacy listed for anywhere from $80-180.
I’m sorry, but as much as I love comics, I simply can’t justify that sort of expenditure for a book.
Then again, I am known to be Azn, and therefore
CHEAP :
Too expensive.
I'll wait till it's on sale... And a pretty lady is selling it...
Luckily, I happened upon a listing last week for $45, which while much more expensive than any of the other comics on my shelf, even the heft hardcover ones; was a price I was more than willing to pay for something I’d waited so long to get my hands on.
Hah, I hope this isn’t becoming a trend, otherwise I might just find myself happy and surrounded by comic books.
Oh yeah, and
POOR .
Anyway , as of writing this, I have yet to so much as crack this bad boy open.
Hopefully Batman: Legacy proves to be worth all of it’s $45 price tag!
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Carnage ,
Collected Editions ,
collection ,
collector ,
Comic Book Guy ,
Comics ,
DC ,
Death of Superman ,
Doomsday ,
hardcover ,
Legacy ,
Marvel ,
Maximum ,
paperback ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
Rare ,
Spider-Man ,
Superman ,
The Sentry ,
The Simpsons ,
trade ,
Venom
Subscribe in a reader
Donate
About
About
An EPIC Tribute to the Greatness that is Donnie Yen
Azn Badger’s Top 25 Best NES Tracks
MASSIVE Summary of Mega Monster Battle: Ultra Galaxy Legend
Mega Man 1-8: Who’s the Best MAN!!!???
Salute To Time Crisis
The Top 10 Best Overkills in Movies
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
The Top 10 Videogame Songs
The Top 5 Traumatic Deaths in Movies
Recent Posts
The Hapa Bro-Cast 02/24/2015
And Now, English People Fighting… With Cats.
Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot Death Reel
A Nightmare On Elm Street Death Reel
Friday The 13th Death Reel
Sean Bean Death Reel
Space Ace Death Reel
Braindead 13 Death Reel
Archive
February 2015  (1)
February 2012  (1)
January 2012  (29)
December 2011  (31)
November 2011  (30)
October 2011  (31)
September 2011  (30)
August 2011  (31)
July 2011  (31)
June 2011  (30)
May 2011  (31)
April 2011  (30)
March 2011  (31)
February 2011  (28)
January 2011  (31)
December 2010  (31)
November 2010  (30)
October 2010  (31)
September 2010  (30)
August 2010  (31)
July 2010  (31)
June 2010  (30)
May 2010  (31)
April 2010  (9)
Tags 2
3
4
Action
anime
Arnold Schwarzenegger
Azn Badger
Batman
blog
Boss
boxing
Capcom
card
Comics
DC
Donnie Yen
fight
Fighting
film
films
funny
game
Games
gaming
Godzilla
Hulk Hogan
Japanese
Jurassic Park
Konami
kung fu
Let's Play
list
Magic
manga
Marvel
Mega Man
Michael Bay
MMA
movie
Movies
music
NES
Nintendo
Photoshop
platformer
Playstation
playthrough
PS3
review
Rocky
shooter
sidescroller
Sony
Spider-Man
Star Wars
Super
Superman
Sylvester Stallone
The Gathering
The Rock
Toho
Tokusatsu
Top 10
trading
Transformers
UFC
Ultimate Warrior
video
videogame
videogames
WCW
wrestling
WWE
WWF
Youtube
Meta
Register
Log in
Valid
XHTML
XFN
WordPress
Links
4th Dimension Computers
Another Sunny Morning
Ava Waits, Holistic Health and Nutrition Counselor
Channel 101
Channel 102
Christian Carvajal's Blog
CHUBB
Collected Editions
Coup De Cinema Official Website
DavidALudwig.com
Fear Nought Publishing
Games21.com, Free Games
Hapstance Films
Kotaku, The Gamer's Guide
Kraken Design
Kung Fu Cinema
Love HK Film
Maxboxing.com – The Ultimate Boxing Experience
My Deviant Art
My Youtube
Panda Color
Panda Smash's Guide to Not Sucking
Politics, Economics, and Pop
Preston Porter Video Production
Riot Prints
Sci Fi Japan
Super Sports Bros. World
The Spoony Experiment
Topless Robot
Twitch Film
Yesasia.com
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Grid Focus Theme .
Follow
Follow “Azn Badger's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 91 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com