Big | Azn Badger's Blog
Azn Badger's Blog
What About the Lysine Contingency…?
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
January 30, 2011 • 8:48 PM
0
Timothy Bradley Has A Big Head.
Original photo.
Not doctored in any way.
Timothy Bradley
has a big head.
I’m not saying he’s arrogant, I mean the man
literally
has a big-ass head.
It’s bulbous, outlandishly disproportionate to the rest of his body, and bears a unique shape that could only be described as “ Tweety Bird -esque.”
In fact, the man’s head is so gigantic, that in the sport of boxing I feel there needs to be a concession made in the rulebooks to treat his cranium as a 4th man in the ring.
When you fight Tim Bradley, you aren’t just fighting Bradley.
You’re fighting Tim Bradley
and
Tim Bradley’s Head.
"And the winner is... The Head!!!"
That being said, the man has a big head, but by golly; he sure knows how to use it.
Known for being a stout, bell-to-bell pitbull-like fighter, Tim Bradley typically relies on his magnificent stamina and workrate to walk his opponents down over 12 rounds.
Such was not the case in last night’s bout against fellow (formerly) undefeated 140 lbs. prospect,
Devon Alexander , as The Head saw fit to end the night prematurely.
You see, Alexander was in the fight from start to finish, however he foolishly discounted the sheer power and dominating force that is Timothy Bradley’s Head.
For several rounds, the 2 exchanged punches at a fairly even pace, with no man gaining any sort of significant advantage.
Alexander’s hand speed proved to be an effective tool for keeping Bradley at bay, however the tide was about to change…  A dark presence was looming, and it was out for blood…
After casually sitting out most of the early action, allowing it’s lower extremities to bear the brunt of the workload, the hulking beast that is Tim Bradley’s Head saw fit to make it’s presence known at the end of the 3rd round, as it crashed into Devon  Alexander’s cranium with the force (and mass) of a wrecking ball, opening a nasty cut over his right eye.
Artist Rendering.
In between rounds, Alexander’s trainer called out to the referee and anyone who cared to listen:
“I
told you
about that fucking Head!”
You see, despite whatever (futile) preparations Devon Alexander made to contend with Tim Bradley’s Head, the sheer size and power of his monstrous skull grants him a tremendous advantage in the sport of boxing.
Pictured: A little known distant ancestor of Timothy Bradley.
While we’ve already made note of it’s savage power, it’s great size serves as a perfect feint, goading opponents into firing away at thinking it to be an easy target, only to be fooled by it’s surprisingly lithe and dextrous movements.
Not only that, it needs to be mentioned that Tim Bradley’s Head grants him an incredible ability to cut off the ring and corner his opponents, as in most regulation sized rings, it ends up occupying at least 80% of the surface area.
There's no escape.
It size grants it it's own gravitational field.
It's science...
You don’t “share” a ring with Tim Bradley’s Head, it
allows
you to step inside.
Despite his best efforts, Alexander was unable to avoid the beast that is Tim Bradley’s Head, as though it honestly does not mean to cause harm to others with it’s near cosmic capacity to cause cuts and bleeding, it’s great size makes such collisions nigh unavoidable.
That being said, while the contest was indeed very close; Bradley’s Head was ultimately ruled the victor.
As it stands, most would agree that the top 3 of the Jr. Welterweight division would likely be comprised of: Timothy Bradley’s Head,
Amir Khan , and Timothy Bradley himself.
While Amir Khan is indeed a tremendous talent, the size advantage, pressuring tactics, and sheer power of Tim Bradley’s Head are all factors that are hard to ignore when considering the outcome of this matchup.
Filed under:
Boxing ,
Uncategorized ,
Amir Khan ,
Azn Badger ,
Big ,
bird ,
blog ,
boxing ,
Devon Alexander ,
fight ,
funny ,
HBO ,
Head ,
humor ,
jr. welterweight ,
Junior Witter ,
Loony Tunes ,
pachycephalosaurus ,
Timothy Bradley ,
Tweety ,
Warner Bros. ,
wrecking ball
January 20, 2011 • 5:47 PM
2
Bane + Christopher Nolan = I Love You Christopher Nolan
It finally happened folks.
Bane
has been officially cast for
Christopher Nolan’s
next, and likely last;
Batman
film,
The Dark Knight Rises .
When I first read about it, I was floored.
I, along with God knows how many comic fans; have been asking for Bane in every Batman film since his debut in
Knightfall .
And no, THIS doesn't count.
He’s one of my favorite villains in Batman’s pantheon, and I have no doubt that Nolan will do him justice in bringing him to the silver screen.
Curiously enough,
Tom Hardy
of Nolan’s
Inception ; is cast as the titular South American juicing genius.
While I honestly don’t
see
Bane in Hardy at first glance, my perception of his as an actor is strictly limited to his performance in Inception, so I don’t think it fair of me to pass judgment based on that alone.
Even so, Hardy’s physical presence seems rather puny when compared to the hulking physique of the character, not to mention I’d be curious to see if he’ll be able to pull of a South American accent, but these are questions that only come to mind given my love for the character.
... Tom Hardy everyone!
Aside from the glee that shoots through my heart as I think of how awesome it’s going to be to see one of my favorite comic villains brought to life on the big screen, the best part of casting Bane for The Dark Knight Rises, is the fact that his character brings a very different dynamic to the mix.
Batman Begins
and
The Dark Knight
featured numerous villains of Batman’s gallery of rogues, however with the exception of perhaps
Ra’s Al Ghul , none of them stood as
physical
match to the caped crusader.
I like you Carrey, but Batman would turn your face inside out with one punch.
While Bane has shown (in the comics) that he is very much on par with Batman in terms of intelligence and cunning, the element of his character that stands out the most is that he is physically as strong as, or stronger; than Batman.
Aside from
Amygdala ,
Killer Croc , and maybe a few others, Batman rarely has to contend with opponents that physically outmatch him, let alone one’s that can count to 5.
Man, I love that clip…
Much like how I’ve been waiting (and continue to wait…) for another
Superman
film to cash in on the amazing success of the wholly under-appreciated
Superman II
by giving him villains he can slug it out with, I’ve spent much of my life waiting for a Batman film to put him up against someone that can duke it out with the dark knight.
As my “Sequential Visual Narrative” teacher once told me:
“Superman is only fun when he has something to punch.”
Which is why this FAILED and should have been titled: "Superman Lifts Progressively Heavier Things"
While I’m of course excited to see what Christopher Nolan’s script has in mind for Bane, the comic fan in me can’t help wonder/worry how Tom “Fish Lips” Hardy will do when it comes to embodying the beast that is Bane.
As evidenced by Nolan’s casting methods since Batman Begins, he’s a man very much keen on casting his films with actors he’s comfortable/familiar with, or failing that; lots and lots of English people.
Seriously man, you try an’ count how many actors in his movies come from across the pond, and you’re likely to run out of fingers
and
toes.
Oh well, it’s probably a comfort thing; and based on his success in the industry up to this point, I’d say it’s working for him.
Anyway,
Catwoman
has also been cast for The Dark Knight Rises, with
Anne Hathaway
filling the role.
Anne Hathaway's Eyes: The Only Thing That Can Compete With Jennifer Garner's Forehead in terms of hogging a shot.
She’s a decent actress, and definitely has a way about her that seems appropriate for Selina Kyle; however aside from
Michelle Pfeiffer’s
multi-faceted performance in
Batman Returns , I bear no love for the character whatsoever.
Honestly, as of this point I’m on board for The Dark Knight Rises for Bane and Chris Nolan; that’s about it.
Oh yeah, and
Michael Caine , ’cause he’s fuckin’ pimp.
Michael Caine on any given Thursday. That's your mom on the left, by the way.
Anyway, that’s it for today, hopefully you’re all as excited/elated as I am for this one!
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2 ,
2012 ,
Amygdala ,
Anne Hathaway ,
Austin Powers ,
Azrael ,
Batman ,
Batman and Robin ,
Batman Begins ,
Big ,
Catowman ,
Christian Bale ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
eyes ,
film ,
Goldmember ,
Heath Ledger ,
Jennifer Garner ,
Jim Carrey ,
Killer Croc ,
Knightfall ,
Michael Caine ,
Michelle Pfeiffer ,
Movies ,
pimp ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
Returns ,
Superman ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Joker ,
The Riddler ,
Tim Burton
October 10, 2010 • 10:40 PM
1
Azn Badger’s Top 25 NES Tracks, #15-11
After 2 days and 10 tracks of preliminaries, today we finally get to the real meat of the Top 25
NES
Tracks!
That’s right folks, today we’ve reached:
THE MIDDLE-TIER.
Pictured: The Middle-Tier.
That being said, what say we get to the crazy-awesome music, eh?:
#15. Shadowgate
“Main Theme of Shadowgate”
Shadowgate
represents one of the very few point-and-click adventures that I ever really got into.
You remember that one scene in the movie
Big
where the young
Tom Hanks
character gets pwned by the wizard for attempting a seemingly logical course of action?
Hey, I would've said "melt wizard" too if I were playing...
Well, for the most part; that scene was indicative of my experience with
adventure games
as a child.
In fact, pretty much every graphic adventure game made prior to the revolutionary
LucasArts
SCUMM interface was simply too cryptic for me to grasp.
Shadowgate, while indeed released sometime after
Maniac Mansion
and it’s
SCUMM
system, was a graphic and text based adventure game that really drew me in, clunky interface and all.
I find it's always a good idea to "Hit" EVERYTHING.
Y'know, just in case...
While most of my memories of the game were of dieing seemingly unfair, and unwarranted; deaths, I honestly never felt any frustration over this.
Shadowgate was a game that set out to be creepy and moody, and in the eyes of my very young self; it accomplished this in spades.
Playing a huge part in this accomplishment, was of course the haunting soundtrack of the game.
While there actually weren’t that many tracks to be heard throughout the course of the game, the overarching
“Main Theme”
of Shadowgate was a track that you never got tired of.
Equal parts foreboding, energetic, and mystifying; the
“Main Theme”
of Shadowgate is a wonderful piece of gaming music that, once heard, will never be forgotten.
Especially when you’ve died to it 40 billion times…
40. BILLION. TIMES.
#14. Super Dodge Ball
“Doppleganger Match”
Super Dodge Ball
is yet another
SUPREMELY BADASS
effort from the folks over at Technos.
Like many games on this list, Super Dodge ball was a game that my brother used to rent quite frequently.
I remember getting my ass pwned by him in Bean Ball games over and over and over again, largely because, like any good older brother; he never taught me how to do the Super Shots.
Kind of hard to tell from the pic, but those 2 guys in the air?
Yeah, they just got knocked across the ENTIRE FUCKING PLANET with a dodge ball.
Anyway, Super Dodge Ball was a crazy-fun game, that while a little bit too easy for it’s own good, played host to one of the coolest final battles in NES history.
Essentially, the final match of the game has your team USA pitted against the
COMMUNIST
and therefore,
EVIL
dodge ball team from the USSR.
After a (presumably) epic match, the sky suddenly turns a devilish shade of purple while the court is occupied by dopplegangers of your team!
EPIC.
Despite the game being based around fucking dodge ball, for whatever reason I thought this final battle was just about the coolest thing ever when I first saw my brother get to it.
Maybe it’s just ’cause I was there to see and listen to it with my brother, but this match, and this piece of music will always stick with me as one of my favorite NES boss themes.
#13. Bionic Commando
“Area 1 Theme”
Bionic Commando
was a great ass game that I wish I had gotten a chance to have played more of as a kid.
I loved the main character’s design, and his bionic arm, so much so that I used to draw him on my place mat in elementary school.
No, you don’t get a pic for that one…
The problem was, I only ever got to play the game when I was at my neighbors house across the street, however most of the time I’d get kicked off the NES so they could play
Sid Meier’s Pirates .
Arr!!! Shiver me timbers! Yo, ho! A Pirate's life for... I fuckin' hate pirates...
That being said, I never really got much of a chance to get very far in Bionic Commando.
Thankfully, all I had to do was play the first stage to hear the best piece of music in the whole game.
“Area 1”
is a very primitive sounding, (even by 8-bit standards) but extremely well composed piece of music.
With a military-ish cadence, and a heroic melody,
“Area 1”
is a terrific track that is well-deserving of the #13 spot on this list, as well as the honor of being considered the theme music for the entire Bionic Commando franchise.
#12. Adventure Island 2
“Boss Theme”
C’mon now, don’t tell me you thought I’d leave out Master Higgins?
Adventure Island
was one of my favorite game series as a kid, and in my opinion, 2 was easily the best in the series.
As previously mentioned, the
“Boss Theme”
of
Adventure Island 2
is fuckin’ badass, so much so that
it got my nod as being one of the Best Boss Musics in gaming .
That being said, among purely 8-bit competition, the
“Boss Theme”
of Adventure Island 2 is definitely deserving of a place on the list of the Top 25 Best NES Tracks.
I love the build up of this track, how it starts out slow, then explodes into a frenetic cacophony of kooky, island-y badassery.
It’s the perfect piece of music for killing giant plants and or crabs to.
Or better yet, CONQUER THE WORLD TO!
#11. The Legend of Zelda
“Overworld Theme”
*Ahem!* Fanboys… You may suck it.
That’s right kids, the
“Overworld Theme”
from
The Legend of Zelda
didn’t crack the Top 10!
While it may seem blasphemous to some, bear in mind; this is
my
list, and as such, it caters to
my
particular tastes.
Pictured: My Particular Tastes.
That being said, I didn’t place Zelda and Final Fantasy where I did for the sake of being cruel, or worse yet; “counter-culture,” I simply did so because there’s a shit ton of other music tracks out there that I genuinely hold in higher esteem.
Now that I got that out of the way, let me say this:
The
“Overworld Theme”
is a beautiful piece of music.
Despite it’s 8-bit nature, the “Zelda Theme” has gone on to grow well beyond the realm game music and become widely regarded as a classic tune worthy of universal praise.
While all that may be true, it doesn’t change the fact that virtually every memory I have of The Legend of Zelda is a bad one.
Getting lost, killed, and just plain frustrated was the order of the day just about every time I played Zelda, and I’m sorry to say, it’s left me negatively biased in regards to it.
The “Zelda Theme” is a great piece of music, that I listen to on my Ipod every now and again, and enjoy a great deal.
Unfortunately, it’s also an older arrangement of the 8-bit days, and as such, it leaves a little to be desired in terms of the fidelity of the music.
While skillfully composed, the “Zelda Theme” still hasn’t really lived up to it’s potential in my eyes, and has yet to have a proper rendition to capture the full glory of the music.
And that, my friends, is why the
“Overworld Theme”
gets dumped in the #11 spot on this list.
Oh yeah, that and there’s exactly 10 other pieces of music I think are better.
Duh.
Well folks, today we cleared the middle-tier of the list!
Tomorrow we’ll be cracking the Top 10, and with 2 classic tunes of gaming history already ranked unusually low,  there’s no telling what’s coming up next!
Filed under:
Games ,
Movies ,
The Top 25 NES Tracks ,
Uncategorized ,
adventure ,
Apple ,
Area 1 ,
Battle ,
Big ,
Bionic Commando ,
Boss ,
Capcom ,
Cosplay ,
Doppleganger ,
game ,
ipod ,
Japan ,
Kemco ,
Lucasarts ,
Main Theme ,
Maniac Mansion ,
match ,
music ,
NES ,
Nintendo ,
PC ,
Princess Peach ,
SCUMM ,
Shadowgate ,
Sid Meier's Pirates ,
spam ,
Steven Seagal ,
Super Dodge Ball ,
Technos ,
theme ,
tier ,
Tom Hanks ,
Top 25 ,
tracks ,
USSR ,
videogame
Subscribe in a reader
Donate
About
About
An EPIC Tribute to the Greatness that is Donnie Yen
Azn Badger’s Top 25 Best NES Tracks
MASSIVE Summary of Mega Monster Battle: Ultra Galaxy Legend
Mega Man 1-8: Who’s the Best MAN!!!???
Salute To Time Crisis
The Top 10 Best Overkills in Movies
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
The Top 10 Videogame Songs
The Top 5 Traumatic Deaths in Movies
Recent Posts
The Hapa Bro-Cast 02/24/2015
And Now, English People Fighting… With Cats.
Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot Death Reel
A Nightmare On Elm Street Death Reel
Friday The 13th Death Reel
Sean Bean Death Reel
Space Ace Death Reel
Braindead 13 Death Reel
Archive
February 2015  (1)
February 2012  (1)
January 2012  (29)
December 2011  (31)
November 2011  (30)
October 2011  (31)
September 2011  (30)
August 2011  (31)
July 2011  (31)
June 2011  (30)
May 2011  (31)
April 2011  (30)
March 2011  (31)
February 2011  (28)
January 2011  (31)
December 2010  (31)
November 2010  (30)
October 2010  (31)
September 2010  (30)
August 2010  (31)
July 2010  (31)
June 2010  (30)
May 2010  (31)
April 2010  (9)
Tags 2
3
4
Action
anime
Arnold Schwarzenegger
Azn Badger
Batman
blog
Boss
boxing
Capcom
card
Comics
DC
Donnie Yen
fight
Fighting
film
films
funny
game
Games
gaming
Godzilla
Hulk Hogan
Japanese
Jurassic Park
Konami
kung fu
Let's Play
list
Magic
manga
Marvel
Mega Man
Michael Bay
MMA
movie
Movies
music
NES
Nintendo
Photoshop
platformer
Playstation
playthrough
PS3
review
Rocky
shooter
sidescroller
Sony
Spider-Man
Star Wars
Super
Superman
Sylvester Stallone
The Gathering
The Rock
Toho
Tokusatsu
Top 10
trading
Transformers
UFC
Ultimate Warrior
video
videogame
videogames
WCW
wrestling
WWE
WWF
Youtube
Meta
Register
Log in
Valid
XHTML
XFN
WordPress
Links
4th Dimension Computers
Another Sunny Morning
Ava Waits, Holistic Health and Nutrition Counselor
Channel 101
Channel 102
Christian Carvajal's Blog
CHUBB
Collected Editions
Coup De Cinema Official Website
DavidALudwig.com
Fear Nought Publishing
Games21.com, Free Games
Hapstance Films
Kotaku, The Gamer's Guide
Kraken Design
Kung Fu Cinema
Love HK Film
Maxboxing.com – The Ultimate Boxing Experience
My Deviant Art
My Youtube
Panda Color
Panda Smash's Guide to Not Sucking
Politics, Economics, and Pop
Preston Porter Video Production
Riot Prints
Sci Fi Japan
Super Sports Bros. World
The Spoony Experiment
Topless Robot
Twitch Film
Yesasia.com
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Grid Focus Theme .
Follow
Follow “Azn Badger's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 91 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com