Learn to overcome the resistance of others to your projects and ideas. — Success Center USA
Success Center USA
Blog
How it Works
Why Success Center USA?
FAQs
The Duct Tape Marketing Signature Brand Audit
Success Teams
Workshops
Winning the Entrepreneurial Game
The new world of marketing
A Better Business Model for a Better Business Plan
Networking and Knowledge
Search Local Marketing
Business Ideas
Contact US
Mental Resistance Training
by
Joy Johnson
on
January 13, 2012
We are biologically geared to instantly look for drawbacks, problems, and things that can hurt us, both subconsciously and consciously.  It’s what’s kept us alive as a species.  Compared to the other great animals that lived during our early years, we were quite puny.  Developing the ability to sense and instinctively react to danger was our version of claws, teeth, wings, and brute force.
For many reasons, it would be helpful to humanity today if we could just be surgically altered, preferably about the time our “ fight or flight ” mechanism starts functioning, to have it removed.  There are no more giant animals lurking in the grass to eat us, so that part of the brain has probably outlived its usefulness.
The fight or flight reaction emanates from a part of our brain called the
Amygdala .  Unfortunately it isn’t as easy as just cutting it out since it performs other functions we still need.  That leaves us with the only alternative of consciously neutralizing it. Some of us will be better than others in our ability to do that. Seth Godin calls it our “lizard brain” in
Linchpin   and Steven Pressfield calls it “resistance” in
The War of Art  and
Do the Work.
As Dawn Westerberg points out in her excellent
post , all too often, even when people approach you or ask you questions, your answers are met with responses that feel negative, and perhaps even insulting.  Dawn is a professional speaker and consultant who is paid to share her knowledge.  Even paying for her knowledge is not sufficient to override natural human tendencies.
If you’re trying to start or grow a small business, I can guarantee you that you’re going to have to overcome a huge amount of resistance and more than a few insults. It will happen almost every time a small business owner or a small-business-owner-want-to-be talks to a family member, friend, or professionals who should know better!  Anytime you, under any set of circumstances, start discussing plans, hopes, and dreams, chances are great you’ll meet with resistance to your ideas.
Resistance – finding fault – is going to be almost everyone’s first reaction.  Only those who have formal or life experience training to look for ways to move forward will respond initially in a positive way.  Remember the
80-20 rule , or
Dan Kennedy’s
1-4-15-40-40 breakdown of it?  A very, very small percent of the people you run into are going to be geared to think in terms of capitalizing on strengths rather than shoring up weaknesses.  In order to get beyond that point, you must work to engage the next step.
Love and hate are not opposites.  They are siblings. Indifference is the opposite.  So, if someone just smiles an empty smile and says, “that’s nice,” leave.  If someone comes back at you with negatives, they are owning your project for an instant and doing what 276,000 years of survival has made them to do – look for dangers.
It’s your job, if you want to mine their nuggets of knowledge – and everyone has some – to help them move beyond the negatives to the next step.  Give them a chance to breath.  Ask them why, why, why, and why again – as many times as it takes to get to their root concerns.  Win them over to you, not necessarily your cause, but you.  Show them you’ve thought it through.  Share your thoughts, point by point.  Ask them what their concerns are and how they would overcome them.
Be very careful with your wording.  Understand that questions direct answers.  If you ask, “can…?” you’ll get a “yes” or “no” answer.  If you ask “How can…?” you will set the other person’s mind on solving the problem of how you can, not if you can.  You have to help them help you.
When you’re done, you’ll probably have learned a thing or two, or thought of a thing or two or ten, and the two of you will be closer.  You’ve shared and listened, and created a “relationship.”  You’ll find you have a bright shiny new champion.  Since they’ve invested the time, and the relationship has been built, you have a basis for continuing the conversation.  Keep track of these people and your conversations with them.  Stay close to those you find most helpful.  A great many of these people will be suitable mentors and Board members.
Tagged as:
80-20 Rule ,
Amygdala ,
business ,
Business Planning ,
Consultant ,
Consulting ,
CT ,
Dan Kennedy ,
Dawn Westerberg ,
Do the Work ,
Entrepreneur ,
Fight or Flight ,
Joy Johnson ,
Linchpin ,
Lizard Brain ,
MA ,
Mentor ,
Relationships ,
Resistance ,
RI ,
seth godin ,
small business ,
Speaking ,
Steven Pressfield ,
The Art of War
Leave a Comment
Name
*
E-mail
*
Website
Previous post:
Consulting: The Benefits of a Team-Based Approach
Next post:
All About Risk
Download Free E-Books
Duct Tape Marketing Signature Brand Audit
Have you been struggling
to get new business?
Is your marketing plan
everything you'd like it to be?
No matter what your business is, Marketing is Job ONE.
To introduce you to our company and services, we want to help you with this most important mission.
Please enjoy our Duct Tape Marketing Signature Brand Audit - normally $199 for just $99.
Please visit often because two days each month, chosen at random on the first of the month,
this Audit will be free!
Please complete the audit questions
here
and we will contact you to schedule your free informational session to discuss the results.
Get Helpful Tips, Tricks, Tools, and Links
We're constantly combing the internet for the latest tips, trick, tools, links, and ideas.
The best of this information is assimilated into our own work, thoughts, and ideas.
On the last Tuesday of every month, we publish a list of tips, tricks, tools, links we've found helpful, and our thoughts removing the rocks from the path to success. If you'd like us to send you a copy too, just enter your email address in the box below.
Subscribe in a reader
TESTIMONIALS
Contact Info:
Copyright © 2010–2015
Better Results
Better Thinking
Business Planning
Employee Management
Joy Johnson
Marketing
Marketing Planning
Mind Tricks
Operations
Personal Finance
Startup Strategy
Technology
Trust and Integrity
Uncategorized
WordPress Admin