Christian Bale | Azn Badger's Blog
Azn Badger's Blog
What About the Lysine Contingency…?
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
December 20, 2011 • 8:54 PM
2
Thoughts On The Dark Knight Rises Trailer
It’s funny, when it comes to movies, I’m actually not that hard to impress.
While I consider myself well-versed in the world of film, at the end of the day all it really takes to peak my interest, is:
A): A decent cast.
B): A decent concept.
and C): The promise of people punching one another at some point in the movie.
In some cases that last one, if represented well enough, is the
only
excuse I need to see a movie, regardless of how dumb or crappy it is.
I rented the shit-fest that was
Unknown
purely in the hopes of seeing a handful of
Liam Neeson
related beat downs.
I saw
Fast Five
solely
for the purpose of seeing
Vin Diesel
and
The Rock
(not Dwayne) bro-out and put each other through particle board walls.
Pictured: Either The Rock is about to get suplexed, or Vin Diesel's in the process of getting Speared. I honestly can't tell...
And when it comes to
The Dark Knight Rises , as utterly incalculable as the build-up has, and will
continue
to be for the next 6 months or so, at the end of the day I will see it because it, unlike any other movie in film history; will deliver the long anticipated spectacle of
Batman
and
Bane  duking it out on the big screen.
That these 2 titans of comics are to be portrayed by capable actors such as
Christian Bale
and
Tom Hardy
respectively, is merely the icing on the cake.
I find this funny. Does that make me less of a man?
Christopher Nolan’s
track record when it comes to cinematography and fight choreography suggests that the ensuing bout will be clumsy and edited through a meat grinder, but even so, I’ve been waiting to see this fight brought to life on the silver screen since I was 6 years old; and crappy or not, I will not be denied.
That being said, Batman and Bane grudge match aside, what did I think of the new trailer for The Dark Knight Rises?
Well, to answer your question, I felt it was quite good by most standards, but much too enigmatic and fractured in it’s presentation to pack the same visceral punch that the later trailers for
The Dark Knight
did.
Here’s a refresher in case you need it:
I’d prefer not to compare the 2, as it’s obvious the people cutting the trailers for these movies came at it from very different tonal and thematic standpoints; but I feel it needs to be said that, to me, The Dark Knight really did have some of the
best
trailers of all time.
Everything, from the shot selection, to the music cues, to the overall pacing of the trailers for The Dark Knight was absolutely spot on.
What’s more, thanks to the dialogue-heavy nature of the trailers, as well as his untimely death, an absurd amount of buzz was generated for
Heath Ledger’s
portrayal of
The Joker , (*Sigh* “Why So Serious?”) not to mention the overall plot of the film was made crystal clear.
Though it sounds silly in this cynical age of ours, in many ways I feel the catchphrases and buzzwords of The Dark Knight actually served to make it’s advertising campaign both effective and memorable on the whole.
The trailer for The Dark Knight Rises has a lot of neat shots in it, promising quite a few interesting set piece moments, however, perhaps due to the lack of dialogue, many of these shots are difficult to interpret from a purely visual standpoint.
Early on we see the reflection of a man with a cane approaching a shiny dinner platter while
Alfred
drones on about the Wayne dynasty:
Pictured: I have no fucking clue. Maybe a Ra's Al Ghul flashback?
At some point we see someone stumble onto the set of
Kenneth Branagh’s
Hamlet :
Pictures: Ballrooms + Flower Petals = Hamelt. It's science.
Later, we see a bearded Bruce Wayne wandering around what appears to be the prison equivalent to
Discovery Zone :
I know it's probably supposed to be a prison, but honestly, I kind of wanna' play on it...
There’s
that French lady
from
Inception  n’shit.
A FOOTBALL FIELD was just DESTROYED! WHY ARE YOU SMILING!?
There’s
Joseph Gordon-Levitt .
Pictured: Joseph Gordon "Still Not Sure Where To Put The Hyphen" Levitt.
There’s
A SHIT TON
of rappeling.
The Dark Knight Rises: A Story of Men On Ropes.
And then we have
Anne Hathaway
as a mean lady that may or may not be
Catwoman .
Seriously, if you take into account the fact that maybe,
just maybe , the people viewing this trailer haven’t been blogging about every step of the script writing process, or staring at leaked production photos for the past several months, (oddly enough, not me!) then this trailer basically offers no hint as to her role being that of Selina Kyle.
Oh wait excuse me, she’s wearing a mask at a masquerade ball that, if you look
really
hard, has
cat ears :
Direct quote: "WHOOOOOOOO!!!!!!"
Sarcasm deployed, mystery solved.
Much like
Aaron Eckhart’s
Two-Face , unless you’ve been following the production or are familiar with the Batman universe, chances are you’d never know Anne Hathaway was supposed to be Catwoman in this trailer.
Indeed, I’m curious to know what this trailer meant to people who
aren’t
familiar with Batman outside of the movies.
In many ways, when I watch this trailer, I feel my perception is skewed by the fact that I already have an attachment to and understanding of many of the characters based on their comic book equivalent.
When I think “Bane,” I already have an image in mind of what I expect from him.
When I hear Tom Hardy speaking through his mask I say to myself:
"I can see how people could find that hard to understand, but goddamnit that sounds like Bane!"
When I see scenes from the trailer like the prison break, I think to myself:
"Nice. That looks straight out of Knightfall!"
To the average Batman virgin however, I’d imagine imagery such as this would be provocative, but purely in a “oh, so that’s gonna’ happen at some point” kind of way.
Hell, I’m willing to bet the average Bat Virgin doesn’t have the slightest clue as to
who
or
what
Bane even is.
What I think I’m trying to say, is that the style of editing and presentation of this trailer is enticing, as anything with a budget and pretty pictures can manage to be, but at the same time I feel frustrated by the numerous vagaries it throws in my lap.
As you can probably tell, I’m not a fan of the
J.J. Abrams -style marketing.
It’s not that I prefer my trailers to spell their plots and structure out to me, I simply value coherence and context over sound cues and pretty pictures.
Much like all of Christopher Nolan’s blockbusters, The Dark Knight Rises appears to be an audio-visual powerhouse, though in some ways it appears a little less so at this point.
The set pieces looks suitably big, but the color palette appears more gray-ish and natural than The Dark Knight and
Batman Begins , and curiously enough, despite it being an almost comical trademark of his, there’s not a single (gorgeous) overhead shot of a cityscape.
Instead he decided to pull a 180 and do an INVERTED overhead shot for the poster!
That last part troubles me, as I’m a big fan of Nolan’s wide open establishing shots, particularly in outdoor scenes, and though it may just be the editor’s doing; there are none to be found in this trailer.
Perhaps the strangest thing though, at least to me, is the fact that they re-used the mood building drone AKA The Joker’s theme from The Dark Knight in this trailer.
I always thought of that particular piece of music as “belonging” to The Joker, which made it somewhat puzzling to hear played over a trailer for a film that, almost certainly; won’t feature him.
Despite everything I’ve said about this trailer, both good and bad, at the end of the day it’s a very good piece of advertising for a sequel that, unfortunately, benefitted from some of the best advertising and pre-release buzz in recent memory.
Not only that, it’s only the
first
trailer, for a huge movie that isn’t dropping until late in the summer.
As good as the advertising for The Dark Knight was from the get go, the 2nd trailers for it,
Iron Man , and Inception were all
MONUMENTALLY
better than the first, which leads me to believe the same will likely be the case with The Dark Knight Rises.
In addition to this, one also has to consider the fact that virtually all of Christopher Nolan’s blockbusters up to this point, while heavily advertised, also did well to avoid showing a great deal of the major story beats and action set pieces.
I mean hell, neither the teaser nor the trailer saw any mention of
Morgan Freeman’s
Lucius Fox , nor any of stuff from the prologue sequence that made the rounds through theaters last week.
I don’t know about you, but up until it’s release I really thought the “truck flip” from The Dark Knight trailer was going to be the climax of the movie.
Instead, the entire skyscraper based finale of the movie ended up playing that role, while never once being hinted at in the trailers.
I guess what I’m trying to say, is that though I may seem overly critical, in truth I’m just a fanboy hoping for the best.
In the meantime though, as weird as it seems, I think I actually liked the almost universally panned
teaser
for The Dark Knight Rises somewhat better than the trailer.
True, most of the footage was borrowed from Batman Begins.
True,
Commissioner Gordon’s
dialogue was hard to understand.
True, virtually nothing Commissioner Gordon had to say was even
worth
hearing in the first place.
BUT , at the very end of the teaser, there is a single, barely 2 second shot that made it all worth it:
Pictured: All I needed to see.
Batman in the rain, taking a deep breath, while Bane slowly approaches from the foreground.
The whole thing was crap up until then, but that last shot instantly sold me.
The trailer, while bigger and much more coherent, didn’t have this shot or even a suitable equivalent.
True, it featured a few shots of Batman and Bane throwing down in the snow, however I felt the subtlety and dramatic implication of the teaser shot did more to appease the fanboy in me than the entirety of the full trailer.
That’s just me though.
Do I ever need a reason to post this? Didn't think so...
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Aaron Eckhart ,
Alfred ,
Anne Hathaway ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Batman Begins ,
Catwoman ,
Christian Bale ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
Fast Five ,
fight ,
film ,
Heath Ledger ,
Inception ,
Iron Man ,
JJ Abrams ,
Joseph Gordon-Levitt ,
Knightfall ,
Liam Neeson ,
Lucius Fox ,
Marion Cotillard ,
Marvel ,
Morgan Freeman ,
movie ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Joker ,
The Rock ,
Tom Hardy ,
trailer ,
Two-Face ,
Unknown ,
Vin Diesel
August 24, 2011 • 7:42 PM
1
Conan The Barbarian Review
Hey look! Orange and Blue!
Let’s get one thing out of the way before we start this review:
I liked the
Arnold Schwarzenegger
Conan .
I liked it
A lOT .
Truth be told, I haven’t read any of the original
Robert E. Howard
Conan stories, nor any of the
Dark Horse
comics.
To that end, everything I know (and love) of Conan has been culled from the Arnold movies, and the
Conan the Adventurer
cartoon series.
Fuckin’ loved that show…
*ANYWAY*
while the examples of Conan that I’ve experienced may not be the most traditional, they’re all I have; and frankly, I don’t mind that.
Which brings us to the 2011 film version of Conan, the oddly titled reboot/retread; Conan the Barbarian, henceforth referred to as
Conan the Hawaiian .
To be perfectly frank, Conan the Hawaiian honestly felt like a double-length episode of
Hercules: The Legendary Journeys , both in terms of plotting and tone.
Sadly, no Kevin Sorbo cameos...
Aside from the names of the locations, the origin story prologue, and maybe some of the characters; much of Conan the Hawaiian’s plot could easily have been transposed onto another generic sword and sandals flick with virtually the same degree of success.
Indeed, had the Conan name not been attached to this movie; for all intents and purposes, I likely would not have bothered to go see it.
Such is the power of licensing and iconography.
Despite all this, I came into the film with fairly realistic expectations.
I would never expect a movie called Conan the Hawaiian to have brilliant writing, nor any degree of complex storytelling in it’s plotting.
For the most part, I just had my fingers crossed for a hefty dose of tasty sword related violence, and a decent performance from the lead actor,
Jason Momoa .
Way to go bra'! Represent!
Conan the Hawaiian delivered (with varying degrees of success) on
both
of my expectations for it, so why then is my opinion of the film so negative?
I think it has something to do with the inescapable elements of cheapness that are evident when watching the film.
For instance, do you want to know how you can tell a movie is cheap, even when it’s props and CGI backdrops are of decent quality?
When the film takes place in about a dozen locations, all of which are represented from afar by a CGI matte painting, and in the interior by a dining room sized sound stage.
Few things are more irksome in a fantasy film than being teased by the promise of cool cities n’shit, only to have the interior of said cities be represented by a
SINGLE FUCKING ROOM .
Also known as Star Wars disease, wherein we frequently are shown the splendor of a cityscape, only to see maybe 3 locations within it.
Despite this minor quibble, one thing that I have to commend Conan the Hawaiian for; is the fact that it represents one of the rare cases when a shitty movie both acknowledges and
revels
in it’s shittiness.
As mentioned earlier, Conan the Hawaiian’s plot is pretty lame, not even as complex or engaging as
The Scorpion King , (which is a better movie, in case you’re wondering) however one of it’s greatest strengths is the fact that it never attempts to be.
To my surprise, Conan the Hawaiian’s running time is largely dominated by action sequences, leaving little room for cheesy plot or equally cheesy dialogue from what I’d assume was it’s 5 page script.
The action/fighting is executed with some degree of competence, and it’s indeed quite bloody; however in my opinion the goryness of the violence could’ve been dialed up just a notch or 2 for effect.
Watching anonymous bad guys get cut down left and right every 5 minutes is fun and all, but it’s a lot more fun when said instances of cutting are unique and memorable.
I’m just saying, I personally would’ve appreciated a disemboweling or de-limbing here and there to spice things up.
In my book, EVERY movie needs a Mola Ram heart rip!
On that same note though, another gripe I had about the film was the fact that, early on we are teased by the villain possessing an honor guard of sorts, an elite cadre of unique villains who all participated in fucking over Hawaiian Conan at the beginning of the film.
By showing us these characters, and how they figure into Hawaiian Conan’s revenge plot, the movie makes a promise that we’ll see all of these characters meet their fate ala
Shurayukihime ,
Kill Bill , and Conan the Barbarian.
While this does in fact
happen , very little care is placed in how each of these characters are dealt with.
In fact, I only remember 2 of the characters receiving names, one of which bears a rather alarming resemblance to one of the
other
nameless honor guardsmen.
Pictured: A GOOD example of eliminating an interesting character OUT OF FUCKING NOWHERE.
It’s a minor gripe, but it pains me to see a film like this, that has so little going for it in terms of plot; sweep away it’s own breadcrumbs though clumsily eliminating potentially interesting characters with little to no fanfare.
Gripes aside, the one element of the action that I can’t knock at all, was Jason Momoa’s swordplay.
Watching a man of Momoa’s size handle a sword with such grace is truly a sight to behold.
Indeed, he and
Stephen Lang’s
pair of duels in the film are very much the highlight of the film.
While I’m on the subject of Momoa, it pains me to say that his acting performance was kind of “meh,” though on the plus side; it’s hard to deny that his physical presence is the sort that can largely make up for that.
I think the problem with Momoa’s acting in the role of Conan, is the fact that the temperment of the character, at least in this film; doesn’t seem to fit him.
It’s kind of like
Christian Bale’s
turn as
Batman
in the
Christopher Nolan
films.
Bale does great as Bruce Wayne, and indeed
looks
the part of Batman, however something about the Batman voice and attitude just doesn’t work.
Momoa has these problems as Conan.
Everything seems to fit pretty well in his quieter and more contemplative moments, though whenever he’s supposed to put on his mean face and get all savage, his voice sounds forced and just doesn’t work for me.
On a side note,
Leo Howard , the kid that played the young Conan; was probably the strongest performance in the whole movie.
Seriously man, that kid was a
BEAST .
Moving on, despite having some decent actors involved, most of the performances in Conan the Hawaiian feel largely phoned-in.
Stephen Lang’s role as the villain is a little bit more complex than you’d expect given his motivations, however the paltry script affords him very little opportunities to flex his acting muscles or chew scenery.
For fuck’s sake, I can recall an instance when Lang is in battle in Conan and declares:
“I don’t like
YOU !”
Really?
You’re the fuckin’ “last boss” of the movie, and
that’s
your big menacing one-liner?
Anyway,
Rose McGowan’s
turn as Lang’s creepy-ass daughter had some thought put into it, though it came across as being hammy in the bad way.
The bad way as in
Sci-Fi Channel , “bad way.”
She does what she can to play to the morbid nature of her character, as well as her bizarre wardrobe, however at the end of the day she comes across as a shlocky villain in the tradition of
The Baroness
or
Evil-Lyn .
That's right, I made a He-Man reference in a Conan review.
Oh yeah, Ron Perlman was in this movie too.
… That’s about all I have to say about that.
Anyway, Conan the Hawaiian wasn’t a horrible movie, especially if you’re purely in the mood for blood and boobs; however it’s largely uninspired and more than a little cheap.
I will say this though:
In terms of pure entertainment value, it’s better than
Cowboys & Aliens .
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2011 ,
Batman ,
Christian Bale ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
Conan ,
Dark Horse ,
Evil-Lyn ,
films ,
GI Joe ,
He-Man ,
Hercules ,
Indiana Jones ,
Jason Momoa ,
Leo Howard ,
Movies ,
Robert E Howard ,
Rose McGowan ,
Scorpion King ,
Star Wars ,
Stephen Lang ,
Syfy ,
the Adventurer ,
The Barbarian ,
The Baroness ,
the Legendary Journeys
January 20, 2011 • 5:47 PM
2
Bane + Christopher Nolan = I Love You Christopher Nolan
It finally happened folks.
Bane
has been officially cast for
Christopher Nolan’s
next, and likely last;
Batman
film,
The Dark Knight Rises .
When I first read about it, I was floored.
I, along with God knows how many comic fans; have been asking for Bane in every Batman film since his debut in
Knightfall .
And no, THIS doesn't count.
He’s one of my favorite villains in Batman’s pantheon, and I have no doubt that Nolan will do him justice in bringing him to the silver screen.
Curiously enough,
Tom Hardy
of Nolan’s
Inception ; is cast as the titular South American juicing genius.
While I honestly don’t
see
Bane in Hardy at first glance, my perception of his as an actor is strictly limited to his performance in Inception, so I don’t think it fair of me to pass judgment based on that alone.
Even so, Hardy’s physical presence seems rather puny when compared to the hulking physique of the character, not to mention I’d be curious to see if he’ll be able to pull of a South American accent, but these are questions that only come to mind given my love for the character.
... Tom Hardy everyone!
Aside from the glee that shoots through my heart as I think of how awesome it’s going to be to see one of my favorite comic villains brought to life on the big screen, the best part of casting Bane for The Dark Knight Rises, is the fact that his character brings a very different dynamic to the mix.
Batman Begins
and
The Dark Knight
featured numerous villains of Batman’s gallery of rogues, however with the exception of perhaps
Ra’s Al Ghul , none of them stood as
physical
match to the caped crusader.
I like you Carrey, but Batman would turn your face inside out with one punch.
While Bane has shown (in the comics) that he is very much on par with Batman in terms of intelligence and cunning, the element of his character that stands out the most is that he is physically as strong as, or stronger; than Batman.
Aside from
Amygdala ,
Killer Croc , and maybe a few others, Batman rarely has to contend with opponents that physically outmatch him, let alone one’s that can count to 5.
Man, I love that clip…
Much like how I’ve been waiting (and continue to wait…) for another
Superman
film to cash in on the amazing success of the wholly under-appreciated
Superman II
by giving him villains he can slug it out with, I’ve spent much of my life waiting for a Batman film to put him up against someone that can duke it out with the dark knight.
As my “Sequential Visual Narrative” teacher once told me:
“Superman is only fun when he has something to punch.”
Which is why this FAILED and should have been titled: "Superman Lifts Progressively Heavier Things"
While I’m of course excited to see what Christopher Nolan’s script has in mind for Bane, the comic fan in me can’t help wonder/worry how Tom “Fish Lips” Hardy will do when it comes to embodying the beast that is Bane.
As evidenced by Nolan’s casting methods since Batman Begins, he’s a man very much keen on casting his films with actors he’s comfortable/familiar with, or failing that; lots and lots of English people.
Seriously man, you try an’ count how many actors in his movies come from across the pond, and you’re likely to run out of fingers
and
toes.
Oh well, it’s probably a comfort thing; and based on his success in the industry up to this point, I’d say it’s working for him.
Anyway,
Catwoman
has also been cast for The Dark Knight Rises, with
Anne Hathaway
filling the role.
Anne Hathaway's Eyes: The Only Thing That Can Compete With Jennifer Garner's Forehead in terms of hogging a shot.
She’s a decent actress, and definitely has a way about her that seems appropriate for Selina Kyle; however aside from
Michelle Pfeiffer’s
multi-faceted performance in
Batman Returns , I bear no love for the character whatsoever.
Honestly, as of this point I’m on board for The Dark Knight Rises for Bane and Chris Nolan; that’s about it.
Oh yeah, and
Michael Caine , ’cause he’s fuckin’ pimp.
Michael Caine on any given Thursday. That's your mom on the left, by the way.
Anyway, that’s it for today, hopefully you’re all as excited/elated as I am for this one!
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2 ,
2012 ,
Amygdala ,
Anne Hathaway ,
Austin Powers ,
Azrael ,
Batman ,
Batman and Robin ,
Batman Begins ,
Big ,
Catowman ,
Christian Bale ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
eyes ,
film ,
Goldmember ,
Heath Ledger ,
Jennifer Garner ,
Jim Carrey ,
Killer Croc ,
Knightfall ,
Michael Caine ,
Michelle Pfeiffer ,
Movies ,
pimp ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
Returns ,
Superman ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Joker ,
The Riddler ,
Tim Burton
September 29, 2010 • 8:15 PM
6
Batman’s New Threads
I was clickin’ around on
IGN
earlier today, when I noticed an article in their comics section entitled, “ Batman Has A New Costume .”
Being a
Batman
enthusiast, I naturally clicked it, half-expecting some sort of shocking redesign along the lines of
Batman 500
AKA the
Jean-Paul Valley
Batman from the
Knightfall story arc .
Pictured: The EXACT image that got me into comics in the early 90's.
You see, though I admittedly haven’t followed Grant Morrison’s recent work on the Batman series, least of all the death and return of Bruce Wayne portion of it, with all of the outlandish Batman costume designs being thrown around as of late, I figured we were due for even more craziness.
Goddamnit! I hella' wanna' hate on this image for being dumb, but it's so damn awesome!
Color me surprised when I discovered that not only was the costume redesign a helluva’ lot more tasteful than I was expecting, it was also done by
Moon Knight
and, *sigh…*
Messiah Complex
artist David Finch was responsible for it.
As beautiful as his art can be, GODDAMN YOU DAVID FINCH FOR TRICKING ME INTO READING MESSIAH COMPLEX!
That being said, let’s take a look at Mr. Finch’s work:
ART.
I have to say, not just as a David Finch whore, but as a Batman fan in general, I really don’t mind the new costume.
Most of the changes are quite subtle, with some elements, such as the classic; almost
Tim Burton
Batman-esque yellow chest emblem, actually being recycled elements from previous designs of the Bat-Suit.
Keaton Batman: The Finest Batman the Silver Screen Has Yet to Produce.
In some images I’ve run across, it seems apparent that
DC
was trying to cash in on the recent mega-success of the
Arkham Asylum videogame , as both the beefier arm guards/gauntlets, the bulkier and more heavily ornamented utility belt, and the molded seam-lines of the suit seem very similar to the art style of the game.
No, the Joker is not about to suck Batman's cock.
Buncha' dirty sickos...
Which reminds me, I simply
have to
play Arkham Asylum at some point…
The seam-lines I mentioned above are probably the one aspect of the design that I’m on the fence about.
How appropriate that that just happens to be the single most noticeable change from the current status quo.
To me, the best Bat-Suit designs have always been the ones that take advantage of the 2D, pen and paper medium.
Blue Batman = THE SHIT.
In comics, the artist has the ability to manufacture images of characters without having to take into consideration the physical properties of whatever materials their costumes are made of.
Depending on the artist’s sensibilities, or the mood of the story, Batman’s cape and cowl can be rendered as smooth and voluminous as silk, or as heavy and lustrous as leather.
Kind of like Spawn!
You're not allowed to ask "why," you just kind of accept it...
In comics, Batman’s costume usually looks best to me when it’s portrayed as a skin-tight presence surrounding the character.
To me, Batman usually looks best when he isn’t so much
wearing
a Bat-Suit, as he is
embodying
it.
Jim Lee’s
Batman always struck me as a fantastic, if not ludicrously beefy design.
Jim Lee's Batman is so fucking beastly, it should be spelt "Bat-MAAAANNN."
Aside from the utility belt and heavily detailed boots, every element of Lee’s Bat-Suit strike me as essentially being a part of Bruce Wayne’s anatomy.
At the same time though, I have to say I was very impressed with
Lee Bermejo’s
rendering of the Bat-Suit in
Brian Azzarello’s
excellent
Joker graphic novel .
Not from Joker, but close enough.
Did I mention this art is badass?
Essentially at the other end of the spectrum in terms of costume/character design, Bermejo’s extremely realistic renderings resulted in a Bat-Suit of tangible weight and bulk, so much so that it truly seemed like a suit of armor.
Not only that, but Bermejo’s design of Batman’s cape was truly striking, as it appeared leathery and almost obscenely heavy, such that it assisted in portraying the character as being almost inhumanly powerful and omniscent.
I’m rambling.
To sum up, Finch’s design of the Bat-Suit is honestly only a mild departure from the status quo, but it’s amazing how much an impact a few seam-lines can make.
Personally, I find the new design to be, how shall we say; “ acceptable ,” I wouldn’t be surprised if those seam-lines get the axe somewhere down the road, as honestly I find them to be somewhat distracting.
Much like pie... If anything can stop me in my tracks, it's the sight and/or smell of a delicious pie...
To me, it’s almost as if Finch is trying to straddle the line behind the
Christopher Nolan
movie’s Bat-Armor design, and the comic’s traditional Bat-Suit, with the end result being a costume that appears almost flight suit-ish.
So what if Batman has brown-guy hands. I'm lazy, so sue me.
While I find the design to be
acceptable , I’ll end by saying this:
I’d take
Jim Aparo
or Jim Lee’s streamlined Bat-Suit over David Finch’s Bat-Flight-Suit any day.
That being said, here’s one more look at it for the road:
Cool enough, but nowhere Bat-MAAAANN levels of MAN-liness.
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
1989 ,
3 ,
500 ,
armor ,
Azrael ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Batman Begins ,
Batman: Arkham Asylum ,
Brian Azzarello ,
Bruce Wayne ,
caveman ,
chest ,
Christian Bale ,
comic books ,
Comics ,
costume design ,
DC comics ,
emblem ,
graphic novel ,
IGN ,
Image ,
Jack Nicholson ,
Jean-Paul Valley ,
Jim Aparo ,
Jim Lee ,
Joker ,
Lee Bermejo ,
Messiah Complex ,
Michael Keaton ,
Microsoft ,
Moon Knight ,
new ,
Playstation ,
PS3 ,
redesign ,
Sony ,
Spawn ,
The Dark Knight ,
Tim Burton ,
Todd Mcfarlane ,
x-men ,
Xbox 360
July 17, 2010 • 8:47 PM
0
I’m Not There: I Didn’t Get It…
I walked away from
I’m Not There .
23 minutes in, I got up from my seat, said to myself “I don’t have the energy for this shit,” and left the room.
I
don’t
walk out of movies.
Hell, I managed to sit through
The Spirit , and that was one of the most vile movies I’ve ever seen (in the theater, mind you.)
Samuel L Jackson's face upon seeing his paycheck for The Spirit.
Then again, I
paid
to see The Spirit, and we all know how cheap I am…..
*Ahem!* I believe “really cheap” is the answer you’re looking for.
Anyway, I walked out of I’m Not There because, after 23 minutes of trying my damndest, I just
didn’t get it .
Now, I feel it needs to be mentioned that I, the
Azn Badger , am not what you’d call a
Bob Dylan
fan.
Sorry Bobby.
Don't worry though, pretty much every other Evergreen grad LOVES you.
I’m not all that familiar with his music, and my basic impression of him as a person is only characterized by the various imitations and caricatures I’ve seen on
King of the Hill
and the like.
Pictured: All I know of Bob Dylan.
Tee-hee, he talks funny...
Needless to say, I don’t really have any sort of connection or appreciation of Bob Dylan, nor
folk /60’s music in general.
I’m more of a
disco
and
funk
man myself…
Type "funk" into Google and whaddayah' get?
GEORGE FUCKING CLINTON.
Anyway, coming into the movie, I assumed that this might effect my enjoyment of the film to some degree.
Turns out that was only a minor point, as the art house clusterfuckery of this movie served to overshadow any sort of issues that the Bob Dylan soundtrack could’ve brought about in my mind.
From what I can tell, the basic concept of the film was supposed to be a series of vignettes detailing the life and times of Bob Dylan, as portrayed by a number of big name actors, while at once referring to each of these actors by names that are not common amongst one another, and most certainly not Bob Dylan.
Confused yet?  Good, now you you know how I felt.
Aside from an opening sequence that shows us all of the actors portraying not-Bob Dylan in the film, namely
Christian Bale ,
Cate Blanchett ,
Marcus Carl Franklin ,
Richard Gere ,
Heath Ledger , and
Ben Whishaw , (if you’re like me you only know half of those names) the first real shot we get of not-Bob Dylan, is a goofy close-up shot of Richard Gere’s eye opening.
I'd like to take this opportunity to tell EVERYONE to see Primal Fear, as it single-handedly taught me to appreciate the art of acting.
Richard Gere would make no other appearances within the 23 minutes of the film I managed to survive.
After that we start following some 11 year old black kid, riding the rails and playing guitar for people.
The black kid is included in the opening sequence of the film, standing amongst the actors that play not-Bob Dylan, leading me to believe he was supposed to be some sort of analogy to Bob Dylan, but for the most part I was just confused.
Moreover I was confused by how the kid acted and spoke like an adult despite his age.
That was just odd.
Know what else is odd?
Watching said black kid fall off a bridge, into a river, get swallowed by a fuckin’ sperm whale, and then watching said scene transition to a woman, whom we’ve never seen before at this point in the movie, standing in a literal air bubble.
An actual still from the movie.
Know what else is odd?
Heath Ledger’s package on camera for no fuckin’ reason, that’s what!
No, you don’t get a picture for that one, perv.
In the 23 minutes I saw of I’m Not There, I couldn’t establish any sort of order or context to any one scene.
The movie would hop around from scene to scene, subject to subject, and actor to actor, such that I couldn’t begin to follow it.
Pictured: The editor of I'm Not There's inspiration.
All I know is that there was a shit ton of Bob Dylan music playing over virtually every frame I sat through, some of which was being sung by Christian Bale, imitating Bob Dylan.
Rest assured, despite the relatively star studded cast, this is not an actor’s film.
The one moment of the film that I enjoyed was when a woman told the little black kid to “live his time.”
That’s right
hipsters , words to live by, yah’ bunch ah’ fuckin’
counterculture , wannabe
beatnik
fuckers.
If you got a bingo, you'll love this movie.
I’m Not There is a prime example of why I don’t pay attention to artsy or
independent films .
I just don’t get them.
Filed under:
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
60's ,
beatnick ,
Bob Dylan ,
Bubble Girl ,
Cate Blanchett ,
Christian Bale ,
Chutes and Ladders ,
counter culture ,
Danny Glover ,
disco ,
drama ,
Edward Norton ,
folk music ,
Frank Miller ,
funk ,
George Clinton ,
Heath Ledger ,
hippies ,
hipster ,
I'm Not There ,
King of the Hill ,
Mike Judge ,
movie ,
Primal Fear ,
revolution ,
Richard Gere ,
Samuel L. Jackson ,
sperm whale ,
The Spirit
July 11, 2010 • 10:28 PM
6
Predators Sucked a Honey Badger’s Ass
And sucked it good...
Nimrod Antal’s
Predators
sucked donkey balls.
Like,
FOH’ REAL .
Hah! Betcha' didn't think I could tie in the Hawaiian stuff with donkey balls, am I right?
Nothing
happened in the first half of the movie.
My favorite actor in the movie was killed off
way
too early, and unceremoniously at that.
Adrien Brody
spends the whole movie failing at imitating
Christian Bale’s
Batman
voice.
Topher Grace
is mostly useless, essentially
still
stuck playing
Eric Forman
(don’t ask me why Eric Forman has a Wikipedia article) from
That 70’s Show .
So much of the film was made in homage to the first film in the series that it may as well have been a remake.
The Predators
have virtually no presence in the film, physical or otherwise.
Oh yeah, and the last third of the movie, which is also curiously overlong; takes what little promise the film might have had, and proceeds to shit all over it.
With poop.
For 45 minutes.
Boy am I glad my brother paid for my ticket this time…
Filed under:
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Adrien Brody ,
Arnold Schwarzennegger ,
bad ,
Batman ,
Christian Bale ,
Danny Trejo ,
Donkey Balls ,
feces ,
Hawaii ,
Honey Badger's Ass ,
jungle ,
Kevin Conroy ,
Laurence Fishburne ,
movie ,
poop ,
Predator ,
Predators ,
review ,
Sci-fi ,
shit ,
Suck My Dog's Dick ,
The Rock ,
Topher Grace ,
Wesley Willis
Subscribe in a reader
Donate
About
About
An EPIC Tribute to the Greatness that is Donnie Yen
Azn Badger’s Top 25 Best NES Tracks
MASSIVE Summary of Mega Monster Battle: Ultra Galaxy Legend
Mega Man 1-8: Who’s the Best MAN!!!???
Salute To Time Crisis
The Top 10 Best Overkills in Movies
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
The Top 10 Videogame Songs
The Top 5 Traumatic Deaths in Movies
Recent Posts
The Hapa Bro-Cast 02/24/2015
And Now, English People Fighting… With Cats.
Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot Death Reel
A Nightmare On Elm Street Death Reel
Friday The 13th Death Reel
Sean Bean Death Reel
Space Ace Death Reel
Braindead 13 Death Reel
Archive
February 2015  (1)
February 2012  (1)
January 2012  (29)
December 2011  (31)
November 2011  (30)
October 2011  (31)
September 2011  (30)
August 2011  (31)
July 2011  (31)
June 2011  (30)
May 2011  (31)
April 2011  (30)
March 2011  (31)
February 2011  (28)
January 2011  (31)
December 2010  (31)
November 2010  (30)
October 2010  (31)
September 2010  (30)
August 2010  (31)
July 2010  (31)
June 2010  (30)
May 2010  (31)
April 2010  (9)
Tags 2
3
4
Action
anime
Arnold Schwarzenegger
Azn Badger
Batman
blog
Boss
boxing
Capcom
card
Comics
DC
Donnie Yen
fight
Fighting
film
films
funny
game
Games
gaming
Godzilla
Hulk Hogan
Japanese
Jurassic Park
Konami
kung fu
Let's Play
list
Magic
manga
Marvel
Mega Man
Michael Bay
MMA
movie
Movies
music
NES
Nintendo
Photoshop
platformer
Playstation
playthrough
PS3
review
Rocky
shooter
sidescroller
Sony
Spider-Man
Star Wars
Super
Superman
Sylvester Stallone
The Gathering
The Rock
Toho
Tokusatsu
Top 10
trading
Transformers
UFC
Ultimate Warrior
video
videogame
videogames
WCW
wrestling
WWE
WWF
Youtube
Meta
Register
Log in
Valid
XHTML
XFN
WordPress
Links
4th Dimension Computers
Another Sunny Morning
Ava Waits, Holistic Health and Nutrition Counselor
Channel 101
Channel 102
Christian Carvajal's Blog
CHUBB
Collected Editions
Coup De Cinema Official Website
DavidALudwig.com
Fear Nought Publishing
Games21.com, Free Games
Hapstance Films
Kotaku, The Gamer's Guide
Kraken Design
Kung Fu Cinema
Love HK Film
Maxboxing.com – The Ultimate Boxing Experience
My Deviant Art
My Youtube
Panda Color
Panda Smash's Guide to Not Sucking
Politics, Economics, and Pop
Preston Porter Video Production
Riot Prints
Sci Fi Japan
Super Sports Bros. World
The Spoony Experiment
Topless Robot
Twitch Film
Yesasia.com
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Grid Focus Theme .
Follow
Follow “Azn Badger's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 91 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com