Tim Burton | Azn Badger's Blog
Azn Badger's Blog
What About the Lysine Contingency…?
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
December 30, 2011 • 2:31 PM
3
Large Marge Is Scary Lookin’.
Pee Wee’s Big Adventure:
A fun-ass movie, with a kick-ass soundtrack, filled with bizarre, and borderline
terrifying
characters.
While Large Marge’s stop-motion animated visage was kind of scary to me back in the day, by far the weirdest/creepiest character I can recall is Francis Buxton, the fat/rich-ass man child:
Hide your kids, and hide your wife....
I remember seeing the same actor play pretty much the same character (though dialed down a notch or 2…) in
Leprechaun , and I was weirded out by him then too.
Something about his pale complexion and red lips, combined with his doughy and highly malleable facial expressions just makes me…. uncomfortable.
Seriously, I like
Tim Burton , I like him a lot, but I’ll never forgive him for having Francis do a scene with his shirt off… In a pool:
Pee Wee Herman: Anti-Fat Body Activist
Filed under:
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
Danny Elfman ,
film ,
Francis Buxton ,
Large Marge ,
Movies ,
Pee Wee Herman ,
Pee Wee's Big Adventure ,
Tim Burton
November 8, 2011 • 7:58 PM
1
“Bionic Mexican” Is Now Officially In The Urban Dictionary!
Pictured: Antonio Margarito, one of the more noteworthy examples of a Bionic Mexican.
A
friend
of mine sent me an
Urban Dictionary
link the other day to the phrase
“he had a tremendous singing voice,”
which, me being me; I instantly recognized as a
Joker
quote from the
Tim Burton
Batman  film.
My friend and I… We have a
special
kind of affinity for
Batman , such that random quote-fragments such as this rarely go unnoticed, if ever.
That being said, seeing that quote on Urban Dictionary put the idea in my head that maybe I should start plugging some of my random isms and in-jokes into their database.
Being as I used the phrase just 2 days ago, I figured I should start things off by throwing “Bionic Mexican” up over there.
Here’s the
official link .
And if you’re genuinely too lazy to click the link, (it happens) here’s the definition:
“Bionic Mexican”:
A Mexican fighter capable of absorbing an inordinate amount of punishment, much like The Terminator.
Example:
John:
“Hey Brian, are you rooting for
Cotto
or
Margarito ?”
Brian:
“I want to root for Cotto, but Margarito’s got that whole Bionic Mexican thing going, so I don’t know…”
Anyway, just wanted to toot my own horn, (for once) have a nice evening!
Filed under:
Boxing ,
Comics ,
Movies ,
Antonio Margarito ,
Batman ,
Bionic Mexican ,
boxing ,
Comics ,
DC ,
Joker ,
Miguel Cotto ,
movie ,
Tim Burton ,
Urban Dictionary
July 28, 2011 • 9:00 PM
5
Are We About To Enter The Age Of Board Game Movies?
Hollywood tends to move in trends.
Really, really, obvious and demeaning trends.
In a market where film studios routinely invest upwards of 100 million dollars on their high profile projects, it only makes sense that producers would display a preference to go with “whatever works.”
According to Michael Bay (and ONLY Michael Bay) this, is what "works."
This of course results in a lot of studios continually aping each other’s films from year to year in hopes of breaking even, or better yet; turning a profit.
In my lifetime alone, I can think of several trends in movies that have come and gone.
Naturally, I have compiled a brief list of said trends:
1. Old TV Show Adaptations
Pictured: One of my favorite films. Hands down.
The first genre trend I noticed, even as a child; was the slew of old TV show (and cartoon) adaptations of the 90’s.
The Brady Bunch ,
Dennis the Menace ,
McHale’s Navy , and
The Flintstones
movies all fell under this umbrella, among a handful of others.
It makes sense, given that
Nick at Nite
was in the process of becoming an established “thing” at the time; not to mention the fact that a number of the filmmakers of this era were likely of the age group that would’ve grown up watching a lot of the 60’s TV shows.
Y’know, shit like
The Addam’s Family ,
George of the Jungle ,
The Fugitive ,
The Jackal , and
Mission: Impossible .
While I can’t say who started actually this trend, or if it was even that profitable; it’s managed to stick around long enough to the point in which I doubt it will ever die.
TV shows will always be lovingly remembered by
somebody , so as time goes by, it’s only natural that some poor deluded fool will pony up the money to make a movie of them in tribute.
Here’s hoping we don’t see a
Seinfeld
or
Frasier
movie 10 years from now.
2. Videogame Movies
Also known as, "Party of Five and Iron Chef Team-Up To Fight Terminator 2."
As with TV show adaptations, videogame movies were something that sprang up during the 90’s, smack dab in the middle of the Super NES era.
While it’s hard to call videogame movies a trend in the fullest sense of the word, it’s evident that they were
intended
to be one in the mid-90’s.
Following the release of the surprisingly decent
Mortal Kombat , videogame movies were stuffed down throats our en masse.
Unfortunately, with releases like
Super Mario Bros. ,
Double Dragon , and
Street Fighter
stinking up the theaters; the trend never really caught on as strongly as I’m guessing it was intended to.
You can thank
Mortal Kombat: Annihilation  and
Wing Commander
for putting the nail in the coffin of 90’s videogame movies:
Despite this, videogame culture has apparently grown exponentially over the years, leading to videogame movie adaptations becoming increasingly regular.
The movies stick suck some serious balls for the most part, but the point is; they have yet to reach a point where they are no longer profitable, and thus they continue to exist.
Truth be told, this “trend” is actually more symbolic of the birth of a new film genre as opposed to a trend, but oh well; it’s my blog.
Fuck you.
3. Comic Book Movies
SPIDER-MAN LOVES 'MERIKUh! WHY DON'T YOU LOVE 'MERIKUh!?
Comic book movies are, as
THE INTERNET
seems to want me to say; kind of a big deal.
While they’ve existed in one form or another for quite some time, it wasn’t until the release of
Tim Burton’s
Batman
in ’89 that we really saw them become en vogue.
Richard Donner’s
Superman
doesn’t really count, as at the time, it was
entirely
in a league of it’s own; only serving to spawn weak-ass imitators as opposed to profitable blockbusters.
Anyway, Batman served to open the floodgates and give way to the release of countless comic book films, many of which were of course; Batman sequels.
In response to the angsty,
MTV
culture of the day, as well as the popularity of “less-than-mainstream” comics, movies like
The Crow ,
Barb Wire ,
Tank Girl ,
Judge Dredd ,
The Mask , and
Spawn
were all cranked out in short order.
While the success of these movies (except for The Mask) was largely scatter-shot, the success of
Blade
in ’98 ushered in the Marvel dominated era of the 2000’s.
I kinda' miss the days when Wesley Snipes was cool... And not poor.
Unless you’ve been living under a rock for the past decade or so, you’ve probably come to realize that
Marve l is the flamboyant and insatiable whore of the comic book movie world.
The arrogant bastard that likes to prance about and shove his cock in your face and demand you tell him how amazingly massive it is.
*Ahem!* Not like I’ve ever had that happen to me or anything…
Routinely whoring out it’s intellectual properties from year to year, Marvel rode the success of
X-Men
and
Spider-Man  (and a string of critical failures) to take the film world by storm, largely through sheer volume of production.
In the 13 years since the release of Blade, Marvel has released a total of 25 major motion pictures, averaging nearly 3 films a year.
While it’s hard to call them rivals these days, (times have changed)
DC
manages to release, at best; 1 film a year.
The only difference is, DC films have a tendency to win Oscar nominations.
Well, except for maybe
Jonah Hex … And
Catwoman .
Catwoman: Protecting the World from Modesty and Cosmetics Moguls.
Anyway, for better or worse, strip-mining the previously established characters and events from comic books is kind of the thing to do for Hollywood producers in this day and age; and based on the record-breaking revenue gained from said movies, I’d say it’s what the audience is into as well.
Which brings me to the eerie prospect of a
4th
trend in films that I would prefer not see come to pass.
Has anybody seen the trailer for
Battleship
yet?
If not, here yah’ go:
Some way, some how, they managed to get
Liam Neeson
to get on board the Battleship bandwagon, (I’m guessing it involved a free trip to Hawaii…) and in all honesty; I’m just plain confused by it all, aliens notwithstanding.
To my knowledge,
Clue
is the only other board game movie in existence at this point; and while that has kind of a cult following in some (seriously demented) parts of the world, Battleship just never really seemed like movie material in my mind.
To me, Battleship was always that one game my friend and I could never play without cheating.
Seriously man, after 5 minutes of calling out “Miss” to each other, inevitably someone would peek over the game, find a ship, and basically win the game.
Even the name “Battleship” doesn’t seem all that marketable to me.
It’s non-descript, it gives virtually zero indication of what to expect in the film outside of maybe a battle or 2 involving ships.
Oh well, goofy military shit is en vogue at the moment, so I’m guessing therein lies to the logic to the production house’s gambit.
The really puzzling part in all of this, is the fact that I recall hearing rumblings of a Monopoly movie being in the works.
I heard about the Battleship movie awhile back, but it wasn’t until I saw the trailer the other day that I truly realized
they were actually going to make it.
What I mean to say is, I
really
hope Battleship doesn’t start a board game movie trend, ’cause I’ll tell yah’, I’m not an analyst, or anywhere near an expert in these matters; but if this shit comes to pass, we’ll be in for some epic-ly shitty over the next several years.
Filed under:
Comics ,
Games ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2 ,
Addams Family ,
Annihilation ,
Barb Wire ,
Batman ,
Battleship ,
board game ,
Catwoman ,
Clue ,
DC ,
Dennis the Menace ,
Double Dragon ,
film ,
Frasier ,
Games ,
George of the Jungle ,
Home Alone ,
Jonah Hex ,
Judge Dredd ,
Liam Neeson ,
Marvel ,
Megan Fox ,
Michael Bay ,
Mortal Kombat ,
Movies ,
MTV ,
Nick at Nite ,
Revenge of the Fallen ,
Richard Donner ,
Seinfeld ,
Spawn ,
Spider-Man ,
Street Fighter ,
Super Mario Bros. ,
Superman ,
Tank Girl ,
The Brady Bunch ,
The Crow ,
The Flintstones ,
The Fugitive ,
The Jackal ,
The Mask ,
Tim Burton ,
trailer ,
Transformers ,
videogame ,
Wing Commander ,
x-men
January 20, 2011 • 5:47 PM
2
Bane + Christopher Nolan = I Love You Christopher Nolan
It finally happened folks.
Bane
has been officially cast for
Christopher Nolan’s
next, and likely last;
Batman
film,
The Dark Knight Rises .
When I first read about it, I was floored.
I, along with God knows how many comic fans; have been asking for Bane in every Batman film since his debut in
Knightfall .
And no, THIS doesn't count.
He’s one of my favorite villains in Batman’s pantheon, and I have no doubt that Nolan will do him justice in bringing him to the silver screen.
Curiously enough,
Tom Hardy
of Nolan’s
Inception ; is cast as the titular South American juicing genius.
While I honestly don’t
see
Bane in Hardy at first glance, my perception of his as an actor is strictly limited to his performance in Inception, so I don’t think it fair of me to pass judgment based on that alone.
Even so, Hardy’s physical presence seems rather puny when compared to the hulking physique of the character, not to mention I’d be curious to see if he’ll be able to pull of a South American accent, but these are questions that only come to mind given my love for the character.
... Tom Hardy everyone!
Aside from the glee that shoots through my heart as I think of how awesome it’s going to be to see one of my favorite comic villains brought to life on the big screen, the best part of casting Bane for The Dark Knight Rises, is the fact that his character brings a very different dynamic to the mix.
Batman Begins
and
The Dark Knight
featured numerous villains of Batman’s gallery of rogues, however with the exception of perhaps
Ra’s Al Ghul , none of them stood as
physical
match to the caped crusader.
I like you Carrey, but Batman would turn your face inside out with one punch.
While Bane has shown (in the comics) that he is very much on par with Batman in terms of intelligence and cunning, the element of his character that stands out the most is that he is physically as strong as, or stronger; than Batman.
Aside from
Amygdala ,
Killer Croc , and maybe a few others, Batman rarely has to contend with opponents that physically outmatch him, let alone one’s that can count to 5.
Man, I love that clip…
Much like how I’ve been waiting (and continue to wait…) for another
Superman
film to cash in on the amazing success of the wholly under-appreciated
Superman II
by giving him villains he can slug it out with, I’ve spent much of my life waiting for a Batman film to put him up against someone that can duke it out with the dark knight.
As my “Sequential Visual Narrative” teacher once told me:
“Superman is only fun when he has something to punch.”
Which is why this FAILED and should have been titled: "Superman Lifts Progressively Heavier Things"
While I’m of course excited to see what Christopher Nolan’s script has in mind for Bane, the comic fan in me can’t help wonder/worry how Tom “Fish Lips” Hardy will do when it comes to embodying the beast that is Bane.
As evidenced by Nolan’s casting methods since Batman Begins, he’s a man very much keen on casting his films with actors he’s comfortable/familiar with, or failing that; lots and lots of English people.
Seriously man, you try an’ count how many actors in his movies come from across the pond, and you’re likely to run out of fingers
and
toes.
Oh well, it’s probably a comfort thing; and based on his success in the industry up to this point, I’d say it’s working for him.
Anyway,
Catwoman
has also been cast for The Dark Knight Rises, with
Anne Hathaway
filling the role.
Anne Hathaway's Eyes: The Only Thing That Can Compete With Jennifer Garner's Forehead in terms of hogging a shot.
She’s a decent actress, and definitely has a way about her that seems appropriate for Selina Kyle; however aside from
Michelle Pfeiffer’s
multi-faceted performance in
Batman Returns , I bear no love for the character whatsoever.
Honestly, as of this point I’m on board for The Dark Knight Rises for Bane and Chris Nolan; that’s about it.
Oh yeah, and
Michael Caine , ’cause he’s fuckin’ pimp.
Michael Caine on any given Thursday. That's your mom on the left, by the way.
Anyway, that’s it for today, hopefully you’re all as excited/elated as I am for this one!
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
2 ,
2012 ,
Amygdala ,
Anne Hathaway ,
Austin Powers ,
Azrael ,
Batman ,
Batman and Robin ,
Batman Begins ,
Big ,
Catowman ,
Christian Bale ,
Christopher Nolan ,
Comics ,
DC ,
eyes ,
film ,
Goldmember ,
Heath Ledger ,
Jennifer Garner ,
Jim Carrey ,
Killer Croc ,
Knightfall ,
Michael Caine ,
Michelle Pfeiffer ,
Movies ,
pimp ,
Ra's Al Ghul ,
Returns ,
Superman ,
The Dark Knight ,
The Dark Knight Rises ,
The Joker ,
The Riddler ,
Tim Burton
January 4, 2011 • 9:07 PM
1
Farewell To Pete Postlethwaite
Pete Postlethwaite, 02/07/1946 - 01/02/2011
It’s old news to all those who would care to know, but 2 days ago English actor and thespian
Pete Postlethwaite
passed away.
While not exactly a headlining star in the film industry, Postlethwaite spent the better part of 3 decades as a go-to supporting actor in a myriad of films and genres.
Possessed of an incredibly powerful, distinct, and versatile speaking voice; Postlethwaite was a deeply respected actor whose presence could serve to legitimize most any production, regardless of his lack of household name status in Hollywood.
The first time I remember seeing Mr. Postlethwaite was in the live-action/stop-motion animated
film adaptation
of
Roald Dahl’s
James and the Giant Peach .\
Yeah, somebody was on the crack...
The movie was a huge deal at the time, as
Tim Burton’s
The Nightmare Before Christmas
had recently re-energized stop-motion for mainstream audiences; not to mention my elementary school class was right in the middle of a Roald Dahl reading binge around the time of it’s release.
Postlethwaite played a small, but pivotal role in the film; as the mysterious pixie-like man that gave James the glowing worms to free him from his evil aunts.
While I was a little bit too young to appreciate the art of acting at the time, I have to admit; the character of Postlethwaite’s face, and the way he used to it embody the spark of energy and cleverness of his character, made the 9 year old me believe he really could’ve been magical.
Since my first encounter with Postlethwaite, I’ve gone to run across him in films too numerous to count.
I laughed at him in
Dragonheart .
Man, Postlethwaite spit some sick-ass rhymes in this movie...
I was startled to seem him so meek and pitiable in
Alien 3 .
He's about 2 seconds from getting his head ripped off...
I was saddened to see him make his exit so hastily in the god-awful
Clash of the Titans remake .
T *Sigh* If only Pete had been the main character instead of Sam Worthington...
But for my money, the finest and most memorable role I remember seeing Pete Postlethwaite in; was as the great white hunter Roland Tembo in
The Lost World .
Hell, I still have his fuckin’ action figure:
Truth be told, it's actually a stunning likeness.
If you read my
Top 10 Overkills in Movies post on the Lost World , then chances are you recall my many (hopefully humorous) asides to Postlethwaite’s character in the film.
I did that, because Postlethwaite was
THE SHIT
in The Lost World, and that was my way of trying to drive that point home.
"When did you last see him?" "I don't know sir, I'm too busy shitting my pants over how fucking epic you are..."
Seriously, of all the quotable quotations in the
Jurassic Park
films, (well, the first 2 anyway…) Postlethwaite’s Tembo was one of the best.
Rest assured, if ever I’m asked if I found something/something, my response will always be:
“Just the parts they didn’t like…”
Anyway, rest in peace Pete Postlethwaite, your wild-eyed, strong-voiced, almost
Obi-Wan -like wise old manliness will be sorely missed.
Here’s hoping you finally get a chance to bag that male/bull T-Rex in the afterlife, hopefully right alongside
Bob Peck
on his Raptor hunt.
Thanks for the memories guys.
Goddamnit, Jeff Goldblum better not be next...
Filed under:
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
3 ,
action figure ,
actor ,
Alien ,
Bob Peck ,
cancer ,
Clash of the Titans ,
death ,
Dragonheart ,
English ,
farewell ,
film ,
James and the Giant Peach ,
Jurassic Park ,
Kenner ,
Movies ,
Obi-Wan Kenobi ,
Pete Postlethwaite ,
remake ,
rest in peace ,
Roald Dahl ,
Robert Muldoon ,
Roland Tembo ,
Steven Spielberg ,
stop-motion ,
The Lost World ,
The Nightmare Before Christmas ,
Tim Burton
December 2, 2010 • 9:47 PM
2
Batman Games and the Azn Badger
Today, after more than a month since my last PS3 game purchase, ( Demon’s Souls ) I went out and bought
Batman: Arkham Asylum .
This one has been a long time coming for me.
As you may have guessed, the Azn Badger is very much a fan of the
Batman .
The
comics , the
animated series , the first 2 and last 2 live-action movies, (those other ones never happened…)  if it’s Batman related media; I’ve probably seen it or
want
to see it.
In my eyes, few characters in the realm of fiction better represent the embodiment of a persona crafted through sheer will than Batman.
He’s a man that
chooses
to be what he feels he must, and that simple element of his character has led to a seemingly neverending stream of great stories surrounding him.
It
hasn’t
however, led to all that many videogames that represented him all that well.
Batman Begins: The only game where seasoned criminals are paralyzed with fear at the sight of moving boxes.
The
Tim Burton
Batman
movie-tie on the
NES , and the
Batman Returns
game on the
Super NES
stand as my favorite Batman games of yesteryear, however aside from borrowing the sounds and aesthetic of their respective movies, neither really made use of the
character
of Batman in their gameplay.
The NES game was a handsome and vaguely
Ninja Gaiden -esque shooter/platformer that still receives acclaim to this day.
It also has quite possibly the most awesome, and totally fucked up endings to a Batman story ever in the history of everything:
The Batman Returns game was essentially a sidescrolling beat ’em up with a few extra bells and whistles in the form of a mildly expanded repertoire of moves, (including being able to throw dudes into the background scenery!) but other than that; was little more than standard genre fare.
Pictured: The coolest element of Batman Returns - slamming 2 clowns faces together for twice the pwnage.
I love both of these games, and find them to be quite fun in their own right; (especially Batman Returns, which I own to this day) however I have to admit, neither game really feels like a Batman game
should .
In the comics, Batman never jumped around giant factories with a laser gun strapped to this forearm.
Hmm, I don't remember this in the comics...
In the comics, Batman never walked from left to right and beat the piss out of a clone army of clowns for hours at a time.
Although I must admit, such a comic would definitely be on my "must read" list.
Man, I hate clowns...
In the comics, the detective work to beating up of goons ratio is generally 2:1.
Let’s get one thing clear:  Batman is
really
fuckin’ strong.
Batman has told villains on numerous occasions that he could “crush their head like an egg,” and for all intents and purposes, I don’t doubt that fact.
Batman is supposed to be a man trained to the peak of human ability, so I would think crushing a human skull with his bare hands would be well within his capability.
When you think about it from that perspective, it’s hard to envision all that many people that could take a patented
Batman Sucker Punch
(TM) and not go right to sleep.
Pictured: The Batman Sucker Punch (TM) in all it's glory.
Though in many ways it might be a product of the unique and condensed structure of American comic book storytelling, I’ve always thought that Batman’s penchant for separating bad guys from their senses within a panel or 2 to be well in line with the facets of his character.
Batman is not a character that engages in dramatic and overblown, 5 minute kung fu brawls with his opponents, he is a silent predator that, more often than not, lays people out rather than battling them directly.
Although far be it from me to say that I don’t appreciate the few instances in which ‘ole Bats gets dragged into an all out slug fest:
Even though this was intensely one-sided, and I never got to read the rematch, this still ranks as one of most awesome moments in Batman history.
This is what initially drew me to Batman: Arkham Asylum.
Yeah, it’s been critically acclaimed up the ying yang.
Yeah, it’s gameplay is supposed to be a
Metroid – Vania * mish-mash of backtracking heavy awesomeness.
Yeah, it even has always awesome
Kevin Conroy
and
Mark Hamill
reprising their roles from Batman Animated series.
"Always awesome" or not, Father Time has officially backed his truck up over Mark Hamill's face and taken the mother of all corn-filled shits on it for good measure
While I obviously don’t discount any of the above, as I did in fact just buy the game today; what
really
got me hyped for this game ever since it came out, was that most of the reviews I was reading about placed a great deal of emphasis on the fact that in this game, you really
feel
like Batman.
Everything from the exploration of the detective mode, to the stealth and counter heavy combat system has been said to reflect the Batman sensibilities we all know and love to a T.
Try saying that about
Batman: Vengeance , or
Dark Tomorrow , or any of the dozens Bat-Failures in videogame history.
I like how me and my friend used to pretend that this was fun... Man I was a dumb kid.
Every kid that loves Batman has wanted to
be
him at some point in their life.
We do it because goddamn it, he’s just a man.
Aside from the billionaire fortune, gadgets, and unlimited resources, at his core; Batman is just a man that woke up one day and committed himself to
being
Batman.
Even if it’s total bullshit, and has a 99% chance of never coming true, at some point in our lives, even if just for a moment; we trick ourselves into thinking that with enough time and dedication, we could
be
Batman if we really tried.
And there's kids like this that are destined to be loser-ly for the rest of their days. Seriously, who in their right mind would want to be Robin?
While I’ve long since grown beyond thinking that, it doesn’t stop me from thinking that playing a game like Arkham Asylum could make me relive those feelings in some capacity.
As of writing this, I haven’t actually started the game, but I was feeling nostalgic, so I figured a little Bat-Ruminating was in order.
Anyway, here’s hoping the game lives up to my insanely high standards!
*It should be noted that I am
not
a fan of Metroid, nor am I a fan of the
Symphony of the Night
style Castlevania games.  This could lead to some issues in terms of my overall enjoyment of Arkham Asylum, however I am hopeful my experience will lean towards the contrary.
Filed under:
Comics ,
Games ,
Movies ,
Uncategorized ,
3 ,
Arkham Asylum ,
Atlus ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
beat-'em-up ,
Bruce Timm ,
Castlevania ,
Comic Book ,
Comics ,
Dark Tomorrow ,
DC ,
Demon's Souls ,
Eidos ,
Forever ,
Gamecube ,
Kevin Conroy ,
Knightfall ,
Mark Hamill ,
Metroid ,
NES ,
Ninja Gaiden ,
Nintendo ,
platformer ,
Playstation ,
PS2 ,
PS3 ,
Returns ,
Robin ,
Rocksteady ,
shooter ,
sidescroller ,
Sony ,
Super ,
Symphony of the Night ,
The Animated Series ,
Tim Burton ,
Vengeance
October 8, 2010 • 6:00 PM
0
The Azn Badger’s Top 25 NES Tracks, #25-21
Welcome folks, to the Azn Badger’s Top 25
NES
Tracks!
After weeks of preparation, carefully researching and measuring untold numbers of musical pieces against one another, I’ve finally managed to put together a list that meets my ridiculous standards.
I’ll admit, there’s sure to be an odd pick here and there, but bear in mind:
This is
my
list, and I honestly couldn’t give 2 shits about what you think of it.
2 SHITS.
That being said, much of the difficulty I had in crafting this list of music, came in the form of a very specific ground rule I decided to lay out for myself from the get go.
Said rule required that I would be restricted to choose only 1 track per game franchise.
I know what you’re thinking:
“Azn Badger, why on Earth would you place such a horrible restriction on yourself, won’t that just make you all nerd-rage-y n’shit?”
"STUPID FUCKIN' PRINCIPLES N'SHIT!!!"
While I did in fact have a hell of a time with this, I decided to abide by this rule because I felt would force me to truly pick the cream of the crop for fear of dishonoring long-standing game franchises with sub-par tracks.
Yeah, believe or not, I actually care
that
much…
Not only that, said restriction also kept me from making a Top 25 of Best
Mega Man
music, ’cause to be honest, this list could’ve easily been made up exclusively of Mega Man music had I allowed myself to do so.
Anyway, we’re gonna’ do this 5 tracks at a time, so without further ado, here’s tracks #25-21 of The Azn Badger’s Top 25 NES Tracks!:
#25. Skate or Die 2: The Search For Double Trouble
“Skate or Die 2 Theme Song”
FUCK.  YES.
Skate or Die 2
was one of those games that I remember for all the wrong reasons.
I remember it as a game that my brother rented one time that had shitty controls, shitty graphics,  and…
Did I mention it was a shitty game?
Anyway, the
one
positive memory I have of Skate or Die 2 was of course, the title screen music.
How many NES games can you think of have their own theme
song ?
With actual digitized
lyrics ?
Well, Skate or Die 2 had one, a
SHITTY ONE , but it was the good kind of shitty.
Y’know, shitty in that
Mystery Science Theater 3000
way, where it’s terrible, but in such a way that you can laugh at it.
Anyway, this is the closest this list has a to a “joke” entry, so brace yourself for
SERIOUS BUSINESS
for the rest of it.
#24. Mike Tyson’s Punch-Out!!
“Training Theme”
Ah,
Mike Tyson’s Punch-Out!! , how you shat on me in my youth… And continue to do so to this day…
Punch-Out!! is a gaming classic notable for it’s bold-faced racially stereotyped cast of boxers, intuitive gameplay, and out-of-control difficulty level.
Mostly just the racism though...
Anyway, I loved Punch-Out!! as a kid, but to this day, I suck balls at it.
I can put half of the guys in
Super Punch-Out!!
down within 15-20 seconds, but the original
Mike Tyson
version is a whole ‘nother story.
I was tempted to put the standard “fight music” that plays throughout the game on this list instead of the
“Training Theme , “
but after careful consideration I think I made the better choice.
Both tracks are heavily inspired by
Bill Conti’s
work on the
Rocky films , and as such, are
FUCKING AWESOME , but in my opinion the
“Training Theme”
just has that little extra something, a little extra swagger in it’s step, that makes it the flag bearer for Mike Tyson’s Punch-Out!!
#23. Fester’s Quest
“Boss Theme”
Fester’s Quest
is a shitty game.
Thanks to the
Angry Videogame Nerd , everyone is now aware of this.
What most people don’t know however, is that
I
spent most of childhood thinking it was actually pretty decent.
For whatever reason, my brother and I owned Fester’s Quest back when it was brand new.
I don’t think either of us knew who the
Addam’s Family
were at the time, (I don’t even think the
AWESOME
movie
had even been made yet) so I can’t explain what compelled my family to possess the ‘ole Quest of Festering, but I digress…
As a kid, I played a lot of Fester’s Quest.
With my poor sense of direction, inability to grasp the control scheme during the “3-D” segments, and acute fear of the green blobs in the sewer levels though, I didn’t really manage to get anywhere in the game.
FUCKIN' BLOBS!!!!
I just sort of wandered around and died, over and over and over again…
Anyway, on 1 or 2 occasions though, I actually managed to get to the first boss.
I never beat him, however the musical memories of said moments are something I treasure to this day.
That being said, Fester’s Quest was, and is, a truly horrible game, however it had some seriously boppin’ tunes, and the
“Boss Theme”
was easily the boppin’est of the boppin’.
BOPPIN’.
#22. Batman
“Streets of Desolation”
Batman .
How could I have a list, any list; without Batman?
Obviously, I couldn’t, ’cause
Batman’s
stage 1 theme
“Streets of Desolation”
is a wonderful piece of music, wholly deserving of a place in the Top 25.
To be honest, I didn’t actually play Batman until very recently.
As in, within the past few months or so “recently.”
In my youth, I had a cheap-ass bulk strategy guide to NES games that my mom gave me to shut me up during a flight to Hawaii.
Kind of like this, but a little less ghetto.
It was one of those “hint books” that gave you shitty advice like:
“In Fire Man’s stage in Mega Man, don’t touch the fire!”
or
“In
Bayou Billy , shoot your enemies quickly or they’ll shoot you back!”
Even as a kid, it was pretty fuckin’ lame.
Anyway, Batman was featured in this guide, and from the pictures, I always thought it looked really fuckin’ cool.
Unfortunately, I was too busy renting
Snow Bros.
every weekend to remember to give Batman a try, so I never really got around to playing it…
Psst! They're made of CRACK.
Boy am I glad I took the time to seek it out and give it a whirl.
Batman really is a great NES game.
It’s final stage is too hard, and the game is
way
too short, but for the most part it’s a fun and graphically intense game that deserves all the praise it receives.
That being said,
“Streets of Desolation”
is a fantastic piece of gaming music that, had I any nostalgia for the game it’s from, would probably be ranked much higher on this list.
#21. Gremlins 2: The New Batch
“Office Stage Theme”
Gremlins 2: The New Batch scared me as a kid.
Not the
movie
mind you, the movie was hilarious.
No, I’m talking about the
game .
Oh yeah, and this one fuckin’ picture book of the movie that had a close-up of Mohawk in his spider form, that was some scary shit…
Nowadays he looks pretty fuckin' pimp to me.
Funny how a few years makes all the difference...
Basically, every Gremlins 2 related product,
except
for the movie itself, creeped me out something fierce.
Oddly enough, it wasn’t the (quite good) visuals that bugged me in the Gremlins 2 game, rather it was the
music .
“The Office Stage Theme”
scared the piss out of me as a kid.
Sure it has a goofy, cutesy note here and there, but the overarching theme of the music is one that struck terror into my soul as a child.
I remember my brother rented this game exactly
once .
I liked playing it, as it had good graphics and controls, and I always thought Gizmo was cool, (my brother preferred Mohawk, as he was the badass Gremlin…) but the music just made me too anxious to play it for more than a few minutes.
That and the fear of running into one of the scary looking bosses…
Like a stunning number of games in the #25-21 bracket (Fester’s Quest and Batman) Gremlins 2 is a
Sunsoft
game, and as such; it’s music has that wonderful Sunsoft flavor to it.
Something about the way they do their bass work is just wonderful to listen to.
Anyway,
“The Office Theme”
might be a little obscure to some, but it’s on the list for scaring me to death as a child…
Check back tomorrow for #20-16 of the Azn Badger’s Top 25 NES Tracks!
Filed under:
Boxing ,
Comics ,
Games ,
Movies ,
The Top 25 NES Tracks ,
Uncategorized ,
3 ,
Angry Videogame Nerd ,
Batman ,
Bayou Billy ,
Bethesda ,
Bill Conti ,
Black Isle ,
Boss ,
boxing ,
Capcom ,
Comics ,
DC comics ,
Fallout ,
Fester's Quest ,
fight ,
Fire Man ,
Games ,
gaming ,
Gizmo ,
Gremlins 2: The New Batch ,
Hawaii ,
Howie Mandel ,
list ,
Mega Man ,
Mike Tyson ,
Mike Tyson's Punch-Out!! ,
mohawk ,
music ,
Mystery Science Theater 3000 ,
NES ,
Nintendo ,
Nostalgia Critic ,
Office Stage ,
pieces ,
rage ,
RiffTrax ,
Rocky ,
Skate or Die 2 ,
Snow Bros. ,
song ,
Spoony ,
Stage 1 ,
Streets of Desolation ,
Sunsoft ,
The Addam's Family ,
The Search For Double Trouble ,
theme ,
Tim Burton ,
Top 25 ,
tracks ,
training ,
Uncle ,
videogames
October 5, 2010 • 7:21 PM
0
Let’s Play Contra III: The Alien Wars, Part IV
Well folks it finally happened.
Up until today, I had a perfect game goin’ on
Contra III , only to have it all come crashing down at the end of stage 4.
Oh well, I didn’t expect to be able to pull off a perfect run on this game, but even so; it kind of sucks having your humiliation recorded on video for all to see.
I will promise this though:
I
will
complete this Let’s Play without continuing.
Anyway, enjoy the balls-out, over-the-top awesomeness that is stage 4!:
Filed under:
Comics ,
Games ,
Movies ,
3 ,
Azn Badger ,
Batman ,
Contra ,
game ,
III ,
Jack Nicholson ,
Joker ,
Konami ,
Let's Play ,
movie ,
NES ,
playthrough ,
quote ,
shooter ,
sidescroller ,
SNES ,
Super ,
The Alien Wars ,
Tim Burton ,
videogame ,
walkthrough
September 29, 2010 • 8:15 PM
6
Batman’s New Threads
I was clickin’ around on
IGN
earlier today, when I noticed an article in their comics section entitled, “ Batman Has A New Costume .”
Being a
Batman
enthusiast, I naturally clicked it, half-expecting some sort of shocking redesign along the lines of
Batman 500
AKA the
Jean-Paul Valley
Batman from the
Knightfall story arc .
Pictured: The EXACT image that got me into comics in the early 90's.
You see, though I admittedly haven’t followed Grant Morrison’s recent work on the Batman series, least of all the death and return of Bruce Wayne portion of it, with all of the outlandish Batman costume designs being thrown around as of late, I figured we were due for even more craziness.
Goddamnit! I hella' wanna' hate on this image for being dumb, but it's so damn awesome!
Color me surprised when I discovered that not only was the costume redesign a helluva’ lot more tasteful than I was expecting, it was also done by
Moon Knight
and, *sigh…*
Messiah Complex
artist David Finch was responsible for it.
As beautiful as his art can be, GODDAMN YOU DAVID FINCH FOR TRICKING ME INTO READING MESSIAH COMPLEX!
That being said, let’s take a look at Mr. Finch’s work:
ART.
I have to say, not just as a David Finch whore, but as a Batman fan in general, I really don’t mind the new costume.
Most of the changes are quite subtle, with some elements, such as the classic; almost
Tim Burton
Batman-esque yellow chest emblem, actually being recycled elements from previous designs of the Bat-Suit.
Keaton Batman: The Finest Batman the Silver Screen Has Yet to Produce.
In some images I’ve run across, it seems apparent that
DC
was trying to cash in on the recent mega-success of the
Arkham Asylum videogame , as both the beefier arm guards/gauntlets, the bulkier and more heavily ornamented utility belt, and the molded seam-lines of the suit seem very similar to the art style of the game.
No, the Joker is not about to suck Batman's cock.
Buncha' dirty sickos...
Which reminds me, I simply
have to
play Arkham Asylum at some point…
The seam-lines I mentioned above are probably the one aspect of the design that I’m on the fence about.
How appropriate that that just happens to be the single most noticeable change from the current status quo.
To me, the best Bat-Suit designs have always been the ones that take advantage of the 2D, pen and paper medium.
Blue Batman = THE SHIT.
In comics, the artist has the ability to manufacture images of characters without having to take into consideration the physical properties of whatever materials their costumes are made of.
Depending on the artist’s sensibilities, or the mood of the story, Batman’s cape and cowl can be rendered as smooth and voluminous as silk, or as heavy and lustrous as leather.
Kind of like Spawn!
You're not allowed to ask "why," you just kind of accept it...
In comics, Batman’s costume usually looks best to me when it’s portrayed as a skin-tight presence surrounding the character.
To me, Batman usually looks best when he isn’t so much
wearing
a Bat-Suit, as he is
embodying
it.
Jim Lee’s
Batman always struck me as a fantastic, if not ludicrously beefy design.
Jim Lee's Batman is so fucking beastly, it should be spelt "Bat-MAAAANNN."
Aside from the utility belt and heavily detailed boots, every element of Lee’s Bat-Suit strike me as essentially being a part of Bruce Wayne’s anatomy.
At the same time though, I have to say I was very impressed with
Lee Bermejo’s
rendering of the Bat-Suit in
Brian Azzarello’s
excellent
Joker graphic novel .
Not from Joker, but close enough.
Did I mention this art is badass?
Essentially at the other end of the spectrum in terms of costume/character design, Bermejo’s extremely realistic renderings resulted in a Bat-Suit of tangible weight and bulk, so much so that it truly seemed like a suit of armor.
Not only that, but Bermejo’s design of Batman’s cape was truly striking, as it appeared leathery and almost obscenely heavy, such that it assisted in portraying the character as being almost inhumanly powerful and omniscent.
I’m rambling.
To sum up, Finch’s design of the Bat-Suit is honestly only a mild departure from the status quo, but it’s amazing how much an impact a few seam-lines can make.
Personally, I find the new design to be, how shall we say; “ acceptable ,” I wouldn’t be surprised if those seam-lines get the axe somewhere down the road, as honestly I find them to be somewhat distracting.
Much like pie... If anything can stop me in my tracks, it's the sight and/or smell of a delicious pie...
To me, it’s almost as if Finch is trying to straddle the line behind the
Christopher Nolan
movie’s Bat-Armor design, and the comic’s traditional Bat-Suit, with the end result being a costume that appears almost flight suit-ish.
So what if Batman has brown-guy hands. I'm lazy, so sue me.
While I find the design to be
acceptable , I’ll end by saying this:
I’d take
Jim Aparo
or Jim Lee’s streamlined Bat-Suit over David Finch’s Bat-Flight-Suit any day.
That being said, here’s one more look at it for the road:
Cool enough, but nowhere Bat-MAAAANN levels of MAN-liness.
Filed under:
Comics ,
Movies ,
1989 ,
3 ,
500 ,
armor ,
Azrael ,
Bane ,
Batman ,
Batman Begins ,
Batman: Arkham Asylum ,
Brian Azzarello ,
Bruce Wayne ,
caveman ,
chest ,
Christian Bale ,
comic books ,
Comics ,
costume design ,
DC comics ,
emblem ,
graphic novel ,
IGN ,
Image ,
Jack Nicholson ,
Jean-Paul Valley ,
Jim Aparo ,
Jim Lee ,
Joker ,
Lee Bermejo ,
Messiah Complex ,
Michael Keaton ,
Microsoft ,
Moon Knight ,
new ,
Playstation ,
PS3 ,
redesign ,
Sony ,
Spawn ,
The Dark Knight ,
Tim Burton ,
Todd Mcfarlane ,
x-men ,
Xbox 360
Subscribe in a reader
Donate
About
About
An EPIC Tribute to the Greatness that is Donnie Yen
Azn Badger’s Top 25 Best NES Tracks
MASSIVE Summary of Mega Monster Battle: Ultra Galaxy Legend
Mega Man 1-8: Who’s the Best MAN!!!???
Salute To Time Crisis
The Top 10 Best Overkills in Movies
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
The Top 10 Videogame Songs
The Top 5 Traumatic Deaths in Movies
Recent Posts
The Hapa Bro-Cast 02/24/2015
And Now, English People Fighting… With Cats.
Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back Death Reel
Crash Bandicoot Death Reel
A Nightmare On Elm Street Death Reel
Friday The 13th Death Reel
Sean Bean Death Reel
Space Ace Death Reel
Braindead 13 Death Reel
Archive
February 2015  (1)
February 2012  (1)
January 2012  (29)
December 2011  (31)
November 2011  (30)
October 2011  (31)
September 2011  (30)
August 2011  (31)
July 2011  (31)
June 2011  (30)
May 2011  (31)
April 2011  (30)
March 2011  (31)
February 2011  (28)
January 2011  (31)
December 2010  (31)
November 2010  (30)
October 2010  (31)
September 2010  (30)
August 2010  (31)
July 2010  (31)
June 2010  (30)
May 2010  (31)
April 2010  (9)
Tags 2
3
4
Action
anime
Arnold Schwarzenegger
Azn Badger
Batman
blog
Boss
boxing
Capcom
card
Comics
DC
Donnie Yen
fight
Fighting
film
films
funny
game
Games
gaming
Godzilla
Hulk Hogan
Japanese
Jurassic Park
Konami
kung fu
Let's Play
list
Magic
manga
Marvel
Mega Man
Michael Bay
MMA
movie
Movies
music
NES
Nintendo
Photoshop
platformer
Playstation
playthrough
PS3
review
Rocky
shooter
sidescroller
Sony
Spider-Man
Star Wars
Super
Superman
Sylvester Stallone
The Gathering
The Rock
Toho
Tokusatsu
Top 10
trading
Transformers
UFC
Ultimate Warrior
video
videogame
videogames
WCW
wrestling
WWE
WWF
Youtube
Meta
Register
Log in
Valid
XHTML
XFN
WordPress
Links
4th Dimension Computers
Another Sunny Morning
Ava Waits, Holistic Health and Nutrition Counselor
Channel 101
Channel 102
Christian Carvajal's Blog
CHUBB
Collected Editions
Coup De Cinema Official Website
DavidALudwig.com
Fear Nought Publishing
Games21.com, Free Games
Hapstance Films
Kotaku, The Gamer's Guide
Kraken Design
Kung Fu Cinema
Love HK Film
Maxboxing.com – The Ultimate Boxing Experience
My Deviant Art
My Youtube
Panda Color
Panda Smash's Guide to Not Sucking
Politics, Economics, and Pop
Preston Porter Video Production
Riot Prints
Sci Fi Japan
Super Sports Bros. World
The Spoony Experiment
Topless Robot
Twitch Film
Yesasia.com
Frontpage Return home
Browse By topic
Subscribe RSS feed
Best Boss Music
Boxing
Comics
Concealable Weapons You're Not Cool Enough To Carry
Games
Great Composers You Ought To Know
Kung Fu
Movies
The Badger and The Beard
The Best Track in the Game
The Top 10 Hardest Boss Fights
The Top 25 NES Tracks
Tokusatsu
Top 10 Manliest Man Moments
Top 10 Videogame Songs
Uncategorized
Villain Showdown
Worst Comics I Own
Wrestling
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Grid Focus Theme .
Follow
Follow “Azn Badger's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 91 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com