patty spivot « The All Things Fun! Blogs
The All Things Fun! Blogs
Subscribe via RSS
Home
About
30 Sep/11 Off
“Déjà Vu All Over Again”
By Glenn Walker
Superman's origin, as told in the book Secret Origins of DC Super-Heroes
"It's like déjà vu all over again."
This amusing Yogi Berra quote approximates one of my biggest problems with DC Comics' New 52. The idea of the restart, the blank slate for some of these characters bothers me quite a bit.
One of the reasons is I don't like origin stories. No, scratch that, I do like origin stories, I just don't like them when they're not needed, or when they are told over and over again. I hate them in superhero movies. It seems like when a hero gets a movie the origin has to be done, whether we like it or not. Just think, next year we'll have Spider-Man's origin told in the movie theater twice in less than ten years.
Why can't they just tell a good story? Just do that, and we as viewers will accept that the hero is who he is and can do what he does. That's how they did it back in the Golden Age, the Silver Age, and especially in the old movie serials. Heck, back in the Bronze Age, in the late 1970s, DC Comics themselves did it one better. Every story opened with an introductory paragraph that told you who the hero was, where he came from, and what he could do.
Here's an example:
Rocketed as a baby from the exploding planet Krypton, Kal-El grew to manhood on Earth - whose yellow sun and lighter gravity gave him fantastic super-powers! In the city of Metropolis, he poses as mild-mannered TV newsman Clark Kent - but battles evil all over the Earth - and beyond - as… Superman!
Cover art for this month's Flash #1 by Francis Manapul
DC should probably implement that again; as a matter of fact, I think most superhero comics should. If you can't tell me the origin in one paragraph, it might just be too complex. Yes, I'm looking at you,
Miles Morales .
The starting from scratch idea has actually ruined a few of the New 52 for me. Case in point -
The Flash
#1. It's a great comic, good story, great new costume, and a terrific new foe in the style of the Silver Age rogues. My problem is that they have turned back the clock. Barry Allen is no longer married to Iris, and on page one, is on a pseudo date with Patty (our Bronze Age preemptive Ms. Flash) Spivot. This just isn't right.
Even as a kid (not yet a married adult, so screw your relation theories), I preferred loving married Iris Allen over mean single Iris West. Barry and Iris had a love that spanned millennia and the multiverse, and survived both their however-temporary deaths. They are soul mates, just as much as Hawkman and Hawkgirl/woman, and they belong together.
I love Barry Allen, and the Silver Age Flash is one of my all-time favorite characters, but do you know when I
didn't
like him? After Iris' death, when he was dating
Fiona Webb
and flirting with Zatanna, that's when he was a jerk. I didn't want to read about him. Notably I kept reading even when he was a widowed angeldust addict, but not as a jerk.
Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen #136 (1971) by Jack Kirby explored the pre-Cadmus DNA Project (cover art by Neal Adams)
Speaking of jerks, we are also back to square one with Superman. The Clark/Lois/Superman triangle is back. I thought we were done with this kind of deceit. If Superman was as true blue as he's always pretended to be, this cruelty would have ended decades earlier than it did. I'm telling you, if Lois shot Clark to death with kryptonite bullets after finding out he'd been yanking her chain with the whole double identity thing for so long – even Judge Judy would acquit her. I don't want to go back to those dark days, but I think I've written enough about that already in
these blogs .
Getting back on track, when Superman was
rebooted
in 1986, the one thing that turned me off was that everything was erased, it was a blank slate. While that was not a bad thing in itself, I then had to read certain stories over again as they were retold. I remember being bored to tears by all the Cadmus Project stories as I had already read them all before, back when they were called the DNA Project as written by Jack Kirby.
Dan Jurgens is a great comic book writer – when he's not retelling Kirby Superman stories over and over again. I certainly hope that won't be the case with Grant Morrison's new
Superman . Unfortunately for me, I think we will be getting the Cadmus/DNA Project stories again anyway in the new
Superboy
and
Teen Titans . I certainly hope not. As much as I liked Morrison's take on the early Superman days in
Action Comics , I hope we won't be getting too many repeats. It's dangerous territory, as his origin has been retold at least three times in the past decade, and will also appear again in the
Man of Steel
film – not to mention almost fifty years of Superboy stories – as if we could all forget Superman's origin…
Cover art to this month's Aquaman #1 by Ivan Reis (written by Geoff Johns)
The best #1 issue of DC's New 52, in my opinion, is
Aquaman
#1. You know why I think a big part of that is? Because the story accepts what has gone before (and Aquaman's marriage to Mera is still intact, unlike other DC Comics marriages) and works with it. Why couldn't all the DC titles have done that? Writer Geoff Johns has fun with Aquaman's history and perception, and fun is something lacking in many of the New 52 as well.
The storytellers of the DC Universe should be guided by the work of Grant Morrison's
Batman , Steve Englehart's
Justice League of America
and
Detective Comics , and James Robinson's
Starman . Just write good stories – and assume everything that came before
did
happen, but just don't reference it unless it's important to the story you're telling. It's pick and choose continuity, but it's continuity that works.
Keep it simple, keep it entertaining, and just tell good stories – and not re-tell them. Please.
Tagged as:
aquaman ,
dan jurgens ,
dcnu ,
flash ,
grant morrison ,
jack kirby ,
marriage ,
new 52 ,
origin stories ,
patty spivot ,
reboot ,
superboy ,
superman
No Comments
11 Jul/11 Off
Son of Vidcast Footnotes
By Glenn Walker
Collage of Calendar Man's various incarnations, by various artists
Hopefully y'all have been following the All Things Fun! Comic Vidcast broadcast live every Wednesday, and if not, get yourself over to its
special webpage
and enjoy.
As I said, it's live every Wednesday morning at 11:30 AM sharp Eastern Standard Time, and available for viewing, as are all the episodes, throughout the week afterwards.
I, along with co-hosts
Allison Eckel
and
Ed Evans , discuss the new comics that come out that day for the week.
We like to think we offer our own unique and informative view of the comics world and what's going on within it and around it.
Although, sometimes fifteen to twenty minutes just isn't enough to explain some of the references made during the vidcast, and it certainly isn't anywhere near enough time to justify the vast storehouse of useless comics knowledge spilling out of my head.
We've had to do this
once before , and hopefully this second edition of Show Notes might help alleviate the pressure on my brain.
Who's Afraid of the Calendar Man?
Interior page by Tim Sale from Batman: The Long Halloween
Stupid name?
Maybe, but this is one scary
Arkham Asylum
baddie in my opinion, which made Allison guffaw on camera.
The Joker?
Two-Face?
The Mad Hatter?
Zsasz ?
Amygdala ?
Okay, yeah, maybe one or two of those guys are scarier, but I think that the
Calendar Man
should be right up there with them.
Julian Gregory Day is old school, as he was created by
Bill Finger .
He was a typical baddie from the old days as he had a catastrophic obsession on which all of his crimes were based.
In Day's case, it was the calendar, and holidays.
Whereas other Bat-villains have just one modus operandi, the Calendar Man could be a couple dozen different villains, based on any number of different holidays, days of the week, seasons, even made-up Hallmark days.
He's like a psychotic
Multiplex , each with a separate personality and MO.
Then there's also his chilling appearances in
The Long Halloween
and its sequel
Dark Victory , playing a Hannibal Lector-esque resource to Batman's Clarice Starling.
Creepy, and much like
Silence of the Lambs , you are left fearing what may happen if he gets out himself.
Paper cape or not, the Calendar Man is one very bad dude.
Just my opinion, folks, but remember, there are no bad characters, just bad writers.
Ms. Flash and the 5 Star Super-Hero Spectacular
DC's 5 Star Super-Hero Spectacular cost $1 in 1977 (cover by Neal Adams)
Okay, back in the days when comics cost around four bits, DC also put out super-sized books that featured eighty pages for one whole dollar, the
Dollar Comics .
Trust the old man here, that was a lot of money at the time, and was a serious output for one comic book.
One such book, a one-shot, was  5 Star Super-Hero Spectacular
(1977).
And spectacular it was, as it featured stories of Batman, Green Lantern, the Atom, Aquaman, and the Flash, each unique compared to the typical stories for those heroes in their regular titles.
The Atom returned to his Silver Age roots and visited Alexander Graham Bell via the
Time Pool .
Green Lantern, who rarely appeared solo without Green Arrow or in space, did both in his tale here.
Batman became the first of the super-heroes to face
Kobra , and even vowed at the end that the Justice League would bring him down.
Aquaman fought the fire-based one-off villain Sunburst in the desert,
and won , baby, water be damned.
And the Flash appeared in a retro science tale reminiscent of his Silver Age, packed to the rim with Flash Facts.
It's that last one that concerns us.
Patty Spivot , a character who barely appeared in the background of Flash stories at that time, was Barry Allen's lab assistant.
She recently, much to this old reader's delight, appeared in Geoff Johns' new
Flash
series in much the same capacity.
She also, in the
Flashpoint
universe, is the new Hot Pursuit.
In the
5 Star Super-Hero Spectacular , a one in a million shot in the dark brings struck brings a flash of lightning to Patty while standing in front of a cabinet of chemicals.
Sound familiar?
Yep, you bet, she gets super-speed.
Interior panel by Irv Novick of Flash and Ms. Flash, from 5 Star Super-Hero Spectacular
Making up a red and yellow lightning bolted costume and calling herself, with very seventies flair, Ms. Flash, Patty starts fighting crime in Central City.
Unfortunately disaster strikes whenever she uses her powers.
Seems different chemicals in the cabinet formed a different combination of powers, and if she doesn't stop, the city will be destroyed.
So, Barry keeps it from happening, revealing that his super-quick mind imagined what
might
happen in seconds, and he rescued her from the accident.
No more Ms. Flash.
And no one remembers her but me.
And Barry Allen, but Barry remembers
everything .
Tony Gordon and the Sino-Supermen
James Gordon, Jr., appeared in Detective Comics this year, and never pre-crisis
Okay, I have no idea who this recent
James Gordon, Jr. , guy is who claims to be the Commissioner's second son in the recent Detective Comics (like
#875 ), but I do know of Batgirl's older brother.
Keep in mind, I'm old and stubborn, and Junior might be post-Crisis and Tony might be pre-Crisis, but in my mind, Tony is much more interesting.
Barbara Gordon's big brother was always something of an enigma.
Rumor had it he had had words with Dad and run away from home, or that he was travelling the world.
He was always off-panel.
Babs missed him, the Commish missed him, but we never actually saw him.
Then came the Sino-Superman.
Yeah, yeah, I know, but at least it's not as ethnically insulting as
Egg Fu
or
I Ching , right?
(oh no, that'll be another Show Notes column, won't it?)
Then, in the late 1970s, Batgirl received word that not only was her brother missing, but that he might have in fact been a spy and might have been kidnapped by the Communist Chinese government.
So the dynamic daredoll (not mine, that's what they actually called Batgirl back then) packed up and went to China to find and rescue her brother, and ran afoul of the Sino-Supermen.
Batman Family #19 (1978) included this story of the Sino-Supermen
It seems that the Chinese did not believe in fate or destiny or accidents.
They believed that America's super-heroes had been created in a lab by our government, and so they had done the same thing.
They cooked up their own superheroes in the lab -- with one problem: Once they used their powers, they blowed up real good,
just like Penguin's goons in the 1966
Batman
movie .
So, over the course of several stories, and after wading through these exploding Sino-Supermen, wearing bad
Don Heck
mock-ups of the original costumes of Superman, Green Lantern, Firestorm,
-- Batgirl rescued her brother.
Tony Gordon returned to the DCU just in time to vanish into comic book limbo, where only old folks like me remember him.
That's all for this time.
I'm sure there will have to be more explanations of obscure and arcane info that likes to stick in my twisted mind.
Maybe next time I'll teach y'all how to pronounce all the 'O' villains in the Justice League's rogues gallery... Until then, tune in Wednesday to the next All Things Fun! Comic Vidcast.
Tagged as:
batgirl ,
calendar man ,
don heck ,
flash ,
james gordon jr ,
patty spivot ,
silver age ,
sino-supermen ,
tony gordon
No Comments
About this Blog
Products discussed on this blog can be found at All Things Fun!, a comics and gaming store in West Berlin, N.J. Visit us online at
allthingsfun.net . Our reviewers, Glenn and Allison, are full of opinions that are truly their own.
Categories
Board and Card Games
(1)
Comics
(112)
Everything Else
(12)
Fandom
(23)
Movies and TV
(20)
Role Playing
(3)
Authors
Allison Eckel Glenn Walker
Archives
Select Month
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
March 2014
February 2014
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
May 2008
March 2008
Tags action comics
alex ross
all things fun
aquaman
avengers
batman
blackest night
brian michael bendis
captain america
dc comics
digital comics
fantastic four
flash
geoff johns
george perez
golden age
grant morrison
green lantern
hawkeye
iron man
j. michael straczynski
jack kirby
james robinson
jim lee
john byrne
justice league
justice society
kids comics
lois lane
marvel comics
marvel studios
new 52
reboot
robin
silver age
spider-man
stan lee
superman
thor
ultimates
ultron
vidcast
wonder woman
x-men
young justice
Recent Posts
Review – The Multiversity #1
All Things Fun! for Best Comics Shop
Review – Grayson #1
Review – Superman #32
Batman ’66 Meets the Green Hornet
All Things Fun! Podcast An Hour of Your LIfe You Won't Get Back Season 3: Episode #5 Milkshakes and Comics Season 3: Episode #4 A Cheater and a Liar Season 3: Episode #3 And Throw It In There Season 3: Episode #2 Six Buttons Fighting For Their Lives Season 3: Episode #1 I'm A Little Bit Taller Season 2: Episode #10 Baby, It's Cold Outside Season 2: Episode #9 Cowboy Reputation Season 2: Episode #8 Stop Calling Mom Season 2: Episode #7 Shut It!
Copyright © 2015
The All Things Fun! Blogs
· Powered by
WordPress
Lightword Theme
by Andrei Luca
Go to top ↑
Podcast powered by
podPress v8.8.10.13