homoeoremedies
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
homoeoremedies
Thursday, February 12, 2009
Clinically verified Sub-rubrics related to Emotions
in mind section of Kent’s Repertory 1.
Abusive, angry, without being - dulc.
Abusive: adj. one who puts to misuse anything.
Interpretation: It may be one’s tongue by using filthy language, one’s authority or position by taking undue advantage of it.
I have used this rubric in patients where I found that their accent of talking is abusive; however, they do not appear to be in anger or dissatisfaction. Cases treated: Allergic Bronchitis (5) Benign Hypertrophy of Prostate (3) Scabies (1)
2.
Admonition, agg – bell, plat.
Admonition: n. Act of cautioning, advising or encouraging.
Aggravates: v. to make worse or more severe.
Interpretation: Admonition should ordinarily be accepted as a gesture of concern shown by one’s well-wishers and should not be taken as ill. But certain people do not like it and will rather act against the advice with increased vigor. Actually admonition in other words is disapproval of a person’s action which is not to his taste. Patient’s Expression: Attendants of the patient remark that “Any word uttered to caution or advice or even encourage him in his efforts is going to have adverse effect in his mind. Instead of taking to correctives, he will try to stick to his ways with greater vigour.”
Cases treated:
Acne vulgaris (3)
Dysmenorrhea (3)
Hypertension (2) 3.
Anger, absent persons at – Aur., kali-c, lyc.
Anger: n. a strong emotion excited by an injury involving a desire for retaliation.
Absent: adj. one that is not present.
Persons: n. human beings.
Interpretation: Desire for retaliation is excited only after the person against whom one is provoked leaves the place or is not present. Patient’s Expression: “I am angry with certain people and internally I do not like even to see their face but I have no courage to show my anger in their presence. I don’t know as to what happens to me when I am face to face with them. Then my behavior becomes so nice as if there is nothing between us.
Cases treated:
Irritable bowel syndrome (2)
Anxiety Neuroses (1)
4.
Anger, alternating with quick repentance – Croc., mez, sulph.
Alternating n.: Two states interchange between one another.
Patient’s Expression: Patient becomes angry on petty matters but soon he realizes his mistake and starts repenting.
Cases treated: Constipation (4) Premenstrual syndrome (7) Writer’s cramp (1) 5.
Anger, answer, when obliged to – arn, coloc, nat-m, nux-v, ph-ac, puls.
Answer n.: Response; Obedience.
Obliged v.: An action made necessary.
Interpretation:
She is not interested to answer the
question,
therefore becomes angry when compelled to do so.
Cases treated: Urticaria (6)
Allergic bronchitis (8)
Pruritis (5) 6.
Anger, former vexations, about – calc, carb-an, sep.
Vexations n.: The act of irritating, annoying, provoking and harassing.
Interpretation: When he remembers the happenings of the past
and thinks over, he gets provoked to retaliate.
Cases treated:
Insomnia (7)
Depression (4)
PCOD (2) 7.
Anger, interruption from – Cham, cocc, nux-v.
Interruption: n. cessation of activity many times in between before it’s completion.
Interpretation: Strong displeasure felt at the breaks experienced in smooth functioning of anything.
Patient’s Expression:
“My ailments are a sourse of obstruction in every type
of my activity, I cannot shave properly because I
can’t raise my hands upto my face. I cannot eat
properly as my knees don’t bend. Definitely all this
annoys me.”
Cases treated:
Chronic bronchitis (5)
Menorrhagia (4)
Lichen Planus (4) 8.
Anger, mistakes, over his – nit-ac, staph, sulph.
Cases treated:
Cervical Spondolosis (5)
Paranasal Sinusitis (6)
Allergic Dermatitis (5) 9.
Anger, touched, when.
Touched: adj. Coming into contact with the fingers or hands or any part of someone’s body.
Interpretation: Sometimes touch is pleasant and sometimes unpleasant, may convey friendly feelings or evil designs and invite reaction accordingly. This is about physical touch. There is another more important in this context where feelings or senstivities are affected where words and thoughts touch the mind and provoke strong displeasure and a desire for retaliation.
Patient’s Expression:
“Because of my ailments, ideas come to my mind that
if I die what will happen to my children. There is none
to look after them. They are so small and innocent
that they will require love and affection of someone.
These sentiments move my mind violently to argue
that I have never thought of doing any wrong then
why all this suffering for me and my children.”
Cases treated:
Intestinal Colic (7)
Renal Colic (5) 10.
Anguish, driving from place to place – ars.
Cases treated:
Allergic Bronchitis (8)
Renal Colic (3) 11.
Anxiety, alternating with indifference – nat-m.
Anxiety n.: Discomfort about something doubtful.
Interpretation:
What will happen? What is about to come?, are the questions disturbing one’s mind.
Alternating n.: Two states interchange between one another.
Indifference n.: Lack of interest.
Interpretation:
Feeling uncomfortable as to what will happen and not bothering for whatever may come, these two states of mind interchange between one another.
Patient’s Expression:
“Sometimes the thought worries me who knows what is in store for me. Whether or not I shall be lucky enough to get cured and sometimes the same thought comes but does not bother me as if I feel no concern about my health. This is how these thoughts in my mind interchange between one another continuously.”
Cases treated:
Anxiety neurosis (2)
Dyspepsia (5) 12.
Anxiety, anticipating an engagement – arg-n, gels, med.
Anticipation: Trying to foresee or realize before hand. When a patient/ person has to meet with any sort of work or appointment, he gets anxious.
Cases treated:
Examination Fever (9)
Insomnia (6) 13.
Anxiety, business, about.
Business n.: Occupation or profession.
Interpretation:
Discomfort about something unknown in connection with business.
Patient’s Expression:
“Nothing else is worrying me except that if I do not get relief speedily then who knows what will happen to my job. There are chances that I might lose it.”
Cases treated:
PUO (5)
Urticaria (6) 14.
Anxiety, children, about his: acet-ac. This has been found useful where the parents were very much concerned about their children’s health/ career/ marriage etc. Cases treated: Insomnia (3) Lichen Planus (2) Pruritis (2) 15.
Anxiety, cruelties, after hearing of – calc
Cases treated:
Nocturnal Enuresis (3)
Menorragia (2) 16.
Anxiety, expected of him, when anything is – ars.
Expected v.: Hoped.
Interpretation: To be doubtful of coming up to the expectation or hopes of others and therefore the anxiety.
Cases treated:
Uterine Fibroids (2)
Chronic Follicular Tonsillitis (2) 17.
Anxiety, others, for – Ars, bar-c, cocc, phos, sulph.
Others adj.: Different from self.
Interpretation: Feeling concerned about others mostly ignoring self.
Patient’s Expression:
“I am never bothered much about my own difficulties. I just can’t see others in trouble. Although I may not be able to help them, but I try my best.” Cases treated:
Osteo-arthritis knees (4)
Menopausal Syndrome (2)
Dyspepsia (3) 18.
Anxiety, flatus, emission of amel. – calc.
Patient’s Expression: This rubric has been used in cases of patients who are anxious due to any reason but they ask the doctor to give him something to release their flatus. Cases treated: Hypertension (1) Dysmenorrheal (2) Irritable Bowel Syndrome (2) 19.
Anxiety, pains from the.
Pain n.: Result of strain received by nerves.
Interpretation: Feeling of uncomfortable ness about the impact of pains lest they be damaging or remain permanent.
Patient’s Expression: “I am worried because of these pains. I do not know where they will land me, who knows whether they will leave me or not. If it happens so, will it be without any harm or damage.”
Cases treated:
Cholilethiasis (1)
Dysmenorrhea (2)
Hysteria (1) 20.
Anxiety, time is set, if a – arg-n, gels, med.
Set v.: Fixed.
Cases treated:
Allergic Rhinitis (3)
Bronchial Asthma (1) 21.
Aversion, religious, to the opposite sex – lyc, puls, sulph.
Cases treated:
Acne Vulgaris (3)
Depression (2)
Hysteria (2) 22.
Cares, full of, domestic affairs, about – bar-c, puls, sep.
Cares n.: Worries, concerns.
Full adj.: Filled to utmost capacity.
Interpretation: To remain concerned all the time about one or the other thing. To be never free from worry.
Domestic adj.: Pertaining to household.
Affairs n.: Things requiring action or to be done.
Interpretation: To remain full of worries concerning household affairs.
Patient’s Expression:
It is found useful those who are bothered
extraordinarily about their domestic duties.
“Except matters concerning home, nothing else enters my mind. I cannot help it. I know it too much, but I also know that it is unavoidable.”
Cases treated:
Mastitis (2)
Lumbo-sciatic syndrome (3)
Leucorrhea (4) 23.
Cares, full of, trifles, about – ars.
Trifles n.: Things of little importance.
Interpretation: To worry even for matters of little importance.
Patient’s Expression: “It is only the minor things that worry me more. I am surprised why it should be like that.” To her it all looks necessary.
Cases treated:
Anxiety Neuroses (1)
Leucorrhea (2)
24.
Censorious, disposition to fault finding or is silent – verat.
Patient’s Expression: When the attendant of the patient tells about his problems, the patient either did not speak but once he starts speaking, he criticizes the attendant like any thing. Cases treated: Irritable Bowel Syndrome (1) Insomnia (1) Hypertension (2) Anorexia (2) 25.
Clinging to persons or furniture – coff, gels, stram.
Clinging v.: Sticking or coming closer by embracing.
Interpretation: Sticking or coming closer to persons or furniture by embracing. Sticking or fastening oneself to anything tightly or closely with no idea of leaving it as long as one’s faith allows it.
Patient’s Expression:
Generally mothers complain about their children that they cling to them so badly that they will not leave them even for a moment. There are instances also that if the child once selects anyone in the family as a preference he will not like to go to any body else.
Cases treated:
Protein-energy malnutrition (1)
Abdominal colic (8)
Otalgia (5) 26.
Clinging, child awakens terrified, knows no one, screams, clings to those near – stram. Child n.: Infant, immature.
Awakens v.: Becomes aware. Terrified adj.: Subjected to intense fear. Knows v.: Recognizes. Screams v.: Cries with shrill sound.
Interpretation: While asleep child awakens, full of terror and in that condition does not recognize anyone but simply catches hold of the people who are near and will stick to them.
Patient’s Expression:
Mother complains that her child wakes up in a terrified state in night, doesn’t recognize anyone, screams incessantly and tries to cling to anybody who is nearby. Elders may also behave in this manner. A person was reminded of a tragedy which happened to him previously. The idea overtook his mind that it was about to repeat itself and terrified him to the extent that he started shouting, “save, save” and tried to cling to those near him.
Cases treated:
Hyperpyrexia (5)
Depression (1) 27.
Complaining, supposed injury, of – hyos. 28.
Deeds, feels as if he could do great – hell.
Deeds (n): achievement.
Interpretation:
thinks that he could do many great deeds in the past and also in future if given the requisite conditions. Patient’s Expression: “It is because of my sickness that I could not do anything of much value. Otherwise, I would have shown my worth. I had many great things in mind to do but destiny had its own course.” 29.
Defiant
Defiant adj.: One who is in a mood to resist boldly an authority or any opposing force which has started dominating it, being intolerant of domination.
Interpretation:
Challenges the present state of health and declares will not live with it. Patient’s Expression: After making a lot of efforts, when he realizes that his condition is not improving and the disease seems to be overpowering him, he becomes defiant and says, “I am not going to accept this condition of my health; neither shall I like to live as a sick person. I want to live as a healthy man. I will see that I must get well, whatever may be the cost and whatever may be the effort or I will commit suicide.” Cases treated: Ulcerative colitis (1) 30.
Despair, itching of the skin, from – psor. Embarrassed, ailments, after – coloc, ph-ac, plat, sep, staph, sulph.
Embarrassed v.: To be uncomfortably self conscious.
Interpretation: Getting over conscious about oneself after the ailment has passed away and realizing the gravity of the problem concerning health and trying to think seriously about it.
Patient’s Expression:
“I am so terrified that when I imagine about the severity of the attack I had last night, I fail to understand, how I could bear it and pass it without harm? And further when I think of it that if it happens again I do not think I shall be able to stand it.” 31.
Ennui
Ennui n.: Boredom, feeling of having enough of a thing or reaching a point of satiety.
Interpretation:
It is mostly attributed to one’s present living conditions or state of affairs.
Patient’s Expression: 1. “I seem to be so used to the present atmosphere that I don’t feel like living in it any more. The four walls of my house seem to be eating me. I am waiting for the day when I shall have some relief to be able to move to some new place.” 2. “ In the beginning I had a lot of interest in taking the treatment regularly but of late I feel I have reached the point of satiety with it. I am looking for the day when it will end, although I am much better than before.” Cases treated: Hypertension (2) Diabetes Mellitus (1) 32.
Ennui, entertainment amel – Aur, lil-t, pip-m.
Entertainment n.: Something that diverts the mind or holds the attention agreeably. It may be in the form of hospitality by anyone or musical performance etc. Ameliorates v.: Makes better or improves.
Patient’s Expression:
“To remain sick even for a day is a matter of great boredom for me; of course if I have something to divert my mind and hold my attention agreeably then I may not bother. Either someone should engage me in some interesting conversation or entertain me as a guest or give some sort of performance like music etc. 33.
Envy
Envy v.: Desire for an advantage possessed by another. Interpretation: The object of envious feeling is grudging at the sight of other’s success, but not in the sense of hatred towards them. It is in the sense that if others can possess something why can’t he? It is in a spirit of competitiveness or a race for gain, to excel others without harming or destroying other’s possessions. Patient’s Expression: “When I see people enjoying around me, it comes to my mind that will there be a day in my life also when I shall have a smile on my face and will be able to eat, drink and be merry as they are doing.” Cases treated: Allergic Bronchitis (2) Tonsillitis (3) 34.
Excitement, ameliorates – aur, lil-t, merc-i-f, pip-m.
Excitement n.: An excited state.
Interpretation: Something that excites or agitates emotions by arousing feelings ameliorates sufferings.
Patient’s Expression: “Something which warms the mind and give it life, acts as a soother to me. I do not like dullness. It is the company of live people which I feel can keep me happy.” Cases treated: Allergic Bronchitis (2) Nasal Polypus (2) 35.
Exhilaration, can recall things long forgotten – Gels.
Exhilaration n.: A state of joyousness or inner feeling of pleasantness.
Interpretation: Feeling of joy while recalling past happenings which were pleasant.
Patient’s Expression:
“Many times I sit and recall the memories of good old days and enjoy at the thought of them but become very unhappy when I think that perhaps those days will never come again. While comparing the present with the past it comes to my mind that I was not like this as I am today but used to be a happy and jolly person.” Cases treated: Osteo-arthritis Knees (3) Dyspepsia. 36.
Fear, animals, of – bufo, caust, chin, hyos, stram.
Patient’s Expression:
Cases treated: 37.
Fear, Betrayed, being – Hyos.
Fear n.: A sort of discomfort aroused by an impending pain, danger or evil which is specific in nature. A person can identify the subject of his fear.
Betrayed v.: Deceived.
Interpretation:
Fear of being deceived by persons, situations or events.
Patient’s Expression:
“Doctor, if you don’t mind, I shall like to know, whether you have treated an identical case (to that of mine) in the past?” “Frankly speaking as you suggest that for every type of ailment, I shall have to abandon allopathic medicines and depend on yours. I am worried, if in case your medicine doesn’t work, what will I do? Because disease is somewhat under control now; Lest I be deprived of what I already have.” Cases treated: Hypertension (1) Acne (3) 38.
Fear, consumption, of – calc, lac-c, paull, sep, tarent.
Consumption n.: The act of consuming as by use, decay or destruction. Progressive wasting of the body.
The act of being consumed (eaten up).
Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 39.
Fear, destination, of being unable to reach his – Lyc.
Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 40.
Fear, devoured by animals – stram. 41.
Fear, extravagance, of -
Op.
Extravagance n.: Excess in any matter.
Interpretation: That part of spending which an individual feels is in excess of what in his estimation is the right limit. Each individual has his own measurement of the excess. One person may like to pay not more than Rupees ten for a thing and a paisa more may be treated by him as exceeding his limit but another may not mind paying Rs.15/- for the same. But both of them will be scared to cross the limits they have in their mind. Patient’s Expression: “Doctor, previously you were not taking so much time. So much so that very serious ailments were treated by you within a short time. Now for this minor disease you are taking so much time. Cases treated: Haemorroids (3) Tinea Corporis (4) 42.
Fear, injured of being – Calad, Cann-i, hyos, Stram, Stry.
Patient’s Expression:
“I cannot bear pain; I will remain without treatment rather than bearing the prick of the needle. I am so afraid of injections, surgical operations etc. that they are beyond my imagination, because of the possibility of irreparable damage.” Cases treated: 43.
Fear, poverty – ambr, bry, calc, calc-f, chlor, meli, nux-v, psor, puls, sep, sulph.
Poverty n.: Shortage in possession of one’s basic needs differing from person to person which one assume essential for one’s existence. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 44.
Fear, putrefy, body will – bell. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 45.
Fear, self-control, of losing – Arg-n, gels, staph.
Self-control n.: Hold over ones physical and mental functions.
Losing v.: Of being deprived of.
Interpretation:
Fears that in a particular situation he may be deprived of control over his physical and mental functions and thus the situation may go out of his hands.
Patient’s Expression:
“Before going out, I am reminded of urinating because of the fear if in case I feel the urge somewhere, at such a place during my journey as do not provide the facility for it. It is possible that I may not be able to keep control over myself and the urine passes involuntarily in the trousers.” “I know that I am fully equipped with the knowledge about my profession and subject but what I fear is whether during the interview I shall be able to keep control over my memory and intelligence and perform properly as I feel I can and I should.” Cases treated: 46.
Fear, society of his position in – Verat.
Society n.: An organized group of persons coming together for a particular purpose.
Position n.: Place of a person at a given moment.
Interpretation: It is one’s own good image or place already earned or to be earned in future in the society which keeps him scared of doing something which may affect his fame. Patient’s Expression: “What I actually fear is that if a female child is born to us, the people will treat us as poor unfortunate persons. It is this impression about us which frightens me and I want to avoid it. Therefore please do something if it is possible that we have a male child. Cases treated: 47.
Fear, sold of being – hyos. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 48.
Fear, starving, of – calc, sulph. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 49.
Fear, strangers, of – ambr, bar-c, carb-v, caust, cupr, lach, stram, thuj. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 50.
Fear, suffering of – Bry, calc, cor-r, derr, eup-per, lil-t, pip-m.
Suffering n.: State of taking strain or tolerating strain.
Interpretation: It is the state of undergoing the strain of nerves that one fears. Patient’s Expression: “I do not mind how lengthy may the treatment be but it should be without any trouble and inconvenience.” “Do you mean pains?” “Sir, don’t talk of pains that is too heavy a term to be used for my fear. I will say that just coming to your clinic frequently to collect the medicine too seems to be troublesome to me. I do not think that I shall be able to accommodate to that extent even.” Cases treated: 51.
Fear, superstitious – Rhus-t.
Superstitious adj.: Any belief having no logical background. Patient’s Expression: ”I have noticed that regularly on 2-3 occassions in the past my pains come on Monday. Therefore a day or two before coming of every Monday, I start fearing that the pain will come; and actually it happens that they come.” Although he laughed but with concern and tried to stress, “Sir do not take me lightly. I request you to do something for me.” Cases treated: 52.
Fear, unaccountable.
Unaccountable adj.: Having no reasonable explanation or accounts.
Interpretation: This is without any meaning. He knows that his fear is meaningless yet is not able to overcome it. Patient’s Expression:
“What to tell you sir, about my fear. I know it is all unnecessary and without any head or tail.” “If I get news about someone’s death, I start feeling about myself that perhaps my death is also near and that I shall die soon. I feel scared to join a funeral. Although I try to tell myself that nothing like that is going to happen, but I am not able to overcome my fear.” Cases treated: 53.
Feigning sick – Arg-n, bell, tarent, verat.
Feigning v.: Assuming an appearance of sickness. To represent one’s own condition of health fictitiously.
Interpretation:
This is the literal meaning of Feigning sick, but actually in practice it is not necessary that the person may put on totally a false appearance of sickness. It is possible that he is really sick but wants to make it appear in an exaggerated way so that those around him must know that he is really sick and give him due attention, and for that purpose he will employ such behavior as is necessary to serve his aim because in reality he wants attention. Patient’s Expression: “You know, these days the near ones have no time to pay attention to a sick person in the house, so sometimes through different types of gestures I have to make it known that I am not well. At occasions I have to represent my sickness in an exaggerated way in order to get their assistance and attention to the extent I need.”
Cases treated: 54.
Frightened easily, wakens in a fright, terrified, knows no one, screams, clings to those near –
stram. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 55.
Frivolous – Arn, bar-c, merc, par, spong.
Frivolous adj.: Not worth of serious notice. Characterized by lack of seriousness. Unserious.
Interpretation:
Taking things easily. Does not become that serious as usually people do in similar situation as he is in. Patient’s Expression: ”I am not bothered much about my sickness because I do not feel that it is of any significance. It is my husband who has generally been admonishing me for this, because in his view I am a careless person so he is concerned for my health. It is at his insistence that I have come to you for treatment, I think it will heal by itself. Cases treated: 56.
Frown, disposed to – hell, lyc, mang, nux-v, stram.
Patient’s Expression:
Cases treated:
57.
Grief, hunting for something to grieve on – Lil-t.
Grief n.: Feeling of intense mental suffering due to anything. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 58.
Hatred, persons of, who had offended, unmoved by apologies- Nit-ac.
Hatred n.: Intense dislike; aversion or hostility. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 59.
Helplessness, feeling of – Hell, kali-br, petr, phos, tax, Stram.
Helplessness n.: State of inability to help oneself in the given circumstances. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 60.
Hide, desire to – ars, bell, camph, chlol, cupr, hell, hyos, lach, puls, stram, tarent.
Hide v.: to prevent from being seen.
Desire v.: Wants to. Patient’s Expression: “I feel I am going to have fever. I want to avoid it , if possible.”
Cases treated:
61.
Hides things – bell.
Things n.: Objects without life.
Interpretation: Hides things, facts, deeds, affairs, actions, intentions etc. not always but on isolated occasions when found necessary that too not with all seriousness but in a joking mood or out of shyness. Uncovers as soon as the shyness is over and seriousness returns. Patient’s Expression: “I generally do not try to hide things from anyone, I am a very open book; but sometimes a situation may demand that you have to put a cover on a particular issue. Yet I will not be able to do it for too long a period, because if I find that to prolong hiding will mean telling a lie I will uncover the hidden fact promptly. For example let me tell you about these black spots on the left side of my face; whenever I meet a stranger I shall cover them with my hand, but if the same person meets me frequently I shall stop covering them.” Cases treated: 62.
High-spirited – hydr, hyos, op, spig, spong, verat, verb. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 63.
Honor, effects of wounded – ign, nux-v, staph. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 64.
Hopeful alternating with sadness – acon, raph.
Hopeful adj.: Full of hope.
Interpretation: Who feels that events may turn out for the best. Assured in mind that the happening will be favorable. Fully confident of getting desired results. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 65.
Horrible things, sad stories, affect her profoundly – calc, cic, cocc, gels, ign, lach, nat-c,
nux-v, teucr, zinc. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 66.
Hurry, occupation, in, desire to do several things at once – Lil-t, plan. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 67.
Impatience, pain, from – cham, hura.
Impatience n.: State of inability to endure or wait because of pain or eager desire for relief. From prep.: Indicates the source, agent or instrument of impatience.
Interpretation: Not in a state to bear pains and therefore is not possible for him to wait any longer. Patient’s Expression: “I cannot bear pain. This is my weakness and therefore I cannot wait even for a moment. If I find that medicine is taking time to overcome the pain, I shall change the treatment at once.” Tossing his head, says, “Oh! Oh! I am not able to bear the pain, please do something quickly.” Cases treated: 68.
Inciting others – hyos.
Inciting v.: Prompting to action.
Interpretation: Prompting others to action and keeping himself behind and quiet. Patient’s Expression: “You might have treated many people successfully but I will accept your skill only after you cure me. Cases treated: 69.
Indifference, complain, does not – hyos, op, stram.
Indifference n.: Lack of interest or concern. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 70.
Indifference, important things, to – calc, fl-ac.
Important adj.: Of significance.
Interpretation:
Lack of concern for things of much significance which ordinarily one is not expected to lose interest in. Patient’s Expression: “It is a strange contrast in my nature that I remain quite disinterested about important matters of my business and other affairs and because of this I have to suffer and miss many good opportunities for progress.” Cases treated: 71.
Indifference, lies with eyes closed – arg-n, cocc, sep.
Lies v.: Remaining in a state of inactivity.
Eyes n. closed: Disallowing oneself to see.
Interpretation: Remains in a state of no concern as if eyes are closed to whatever goes around and have become inactive. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 72.
Indifference, personal appearance – sulph. Personal adj.: One’s own.
Interpretation: Lack of interest in one’s own outward show, in dressing, maintaining public impression of decorum, prosperity etc. Patient’s Expression: “I do not feel any interest in dressing myself properly and to keep my personal appearance in order, because I am never convinced that my appearance which in view of others is bad is really not good.” Cases treated: 73.
Indifference, recovery about his – calc.
Recovery n.: Regaining of something lost.
About prep.: Concerning.
Interpretation: Not bothering about regaining the health lost but is interested only in mitigating his sufferings. Patient’s Expression: “I am not much interested in the eradication of my disease. What I am bothered most is about the suffering and pain. I want to get rid of them first, about recovery I will think later.” Cases treated: 74.
Indifference, suffering, to – hell, op, stram.
Interpretation: Feeling of no concern far one’s sufferings are concerned as if nothing is happening to him. Patient’s Expression: Attendants of the patient remark that “Ailments may be of any dimension, we have never seen him showing any concern about them. He keeps himself normal.” Cases treated: 75.
Indifference, welfare of others, to – sulph. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 76.
Indignation, bad effects following – coloc, ip, nux-v, plat, staph. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 77.
Indignation, discomfort, from general - op.
Indignation n.: Feeling caused by what is considered as unworthy of one’s dignity.
Interpretation: The respect, position, status one holds in office or being elderly in house etc. etc.
Discomfort n. from general: State of uncomfortable feeling of having been disrespected, although in a general way.
Interpretation:
One has not been provided due reception or the comfortable place of sitting etc. worthy of his dignity of which others are not aware. Patient’s Expression: “There is a problem with me, if I come to your clinic and I find that there is no one to attend to me properly and offer me a seat or at least receive me with respect and request me to wait till the Doctor is free, I will take it as disrespect and will not wait even for a moment and leave the place. Cases treated: 78.
Irritability, pain during – hep, ign.
Irritability n.: State of excitability to impatience or anger or annoyance.
Pain n.: Bodily suffering or distress due to injury or illness.
Interpretation:
In other words, it is the degree of strain the nerves have to bear. After a limit the stress of strain is felt and it starts taking the shape of suffering. This stress when aggravated further takes the shape of pain. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 79.
Irritability, questioned, when – apis, arn, cham, coloc, nat-m, nux-v, ph-ac, puls, ust. Questioned v.: Challanged and disputed. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 80.
Jealousy
Jealousy n.: Uneasiness at the success or position of others or suspiciousness or rivalry or faithlessness in love or business affairs. Interpretation: Jealousy is opposite to envy. It is double edged. Neither he can tolerate others possessing something which he doesn’t possess nor can he tolerate others having the same thing which he possesses. He will remain suspecting others of robbing him of his possessions. He may take to offense in protecting his possessions.
Patient’s Expression: “When I see people laughing it comes to my mind that I should snatch from them their joy. If I cannot enjoy why they should?” Cases treated: 81.
Laughing, actions, at his own – iris, stram.
Laughing n.: The state of expressing emotions as mirth, pleasure, derision or nervousness with an audible vocal expulsion of air from the lungs which can range from loud burst of sound to chuckles.
Actions n.: Doings.
Interpretation:
To express a casual joy at one’s own doings. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 82.
Laughing, speaking, when – aur, bell.
Speaking n.: Communicating orally.
Interpretation: Laughing while communicating orally which shows a happy mood. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 83.
Narrating her symptoms agg. – calc, cic, ign, puls, teucr.
Narrating v.: Giving account of her problems.
Interpretation: Her symptoms agg. while giving an account of them. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 84.
Playful – aloe, cimic, cocc, elaps, lach, meny, naja, ox-ac, seneg, tarent.
Playful adj.: Disposed to engage oneself in some amusing exercise. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 85.
Quarrelsome, anger, without – bell, dulc.
Quarrelsome adj.: Argumentative, one who disputes.
Interpretation:
Inclined to argue or to disagree without anger or any sort of agitation. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 86.
Rage, touch, renewed by – bell, op, stram.
Rage n.: Extreme anger; furious excitement.
Renewed v.: Reintroduced; to apply afresh, to do again. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 87.
Rest, cannot, when things are not in proper place – anac, ars.
Rest n.: Relief or freedom from troubles or exertion.
Proper adj. place n.: A space meant for a particular purpose.
When adj.: Point of time or period. Cannot be at peace as long as things are brought back to order required. This rubric may be converted into these words “things do not appear in order” but it is not necessary that peace of mind is lost in every case. In the broader context the disorder may be of any type concerning anything in life or society (even one’s own action or of others) etc. etc. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 88.
Sadness, insult, as if from – cocc.
Sadness n.: State of unhappiness.
Insult v.: Affront, an offence on one’s dignity or self respect.
Interpretation:
State of unhappiness with the feeling as if self respect or dignity has been offended. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 89.
Sadness, quiet. Quiet adj.: Free from disturbing thoughts or emotions etc. State of unhappiness without making any noise or show of it.
Interpretation:
Sadness demonstrated by assuming quietness by way of withdrawal from activity. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 90.
Sadness, slight, an undeserved from. Slight n.: Having been treated with indifference pointedly and contemptuously. Undeserved adj.: Unjustified.
Interpretation:
State of unhappiness because of contemptuous discourtesy received for no fault on one’s part or state of unhappiness because of an unjustified insult. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 91.
Shrieking, aid for – plat.
Shrieking v.: Uttering a sharp cry.
Aid v.: Subsidy; not full help but just a part of it. It is that portion of assistance which one needs to fulfill the deficiency being experienced in one’s own efforts.
Interpretation:
Asking for a helping hand in an unpleasant tone. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 92.
Weeping, anecdotes from – lach.
Weeping n.: Shedding tears to express grief, sorrow or any overpowering emotion. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 93.
Weeping, refused anything, when – bell, cham, ign.
Refused v.: A request rejected.
Interpretation:
Weeps when he feels his request for anything is rejected. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 94.
Weeping, telling of her sickness, when – kali-c, med, puls, sep. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 95.
Weeping touched when.
Touched adj.: Coming into contact with the fingers or hands or any part of someone’s body.
Interpretation:
While coming into contact physically with finger, hand or any part of another’s body or mentally any thought or word heard move the mind and stir it to react in the form of shedding tears. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated: 96.
Weeping, thanked, when – lyc. Patient’s Expression: Cases treated:
Posted by
Dr. Raman
at
10:32 PM
No comments:
Emotions
Emotion Emotions Basic Anger Fear Sadness Happiness Disgust Others Acceptance Affection Aggression Ambivalence Apathy Anxiety Compassion Confusion Contempt Depression Doubt Ecstasy Empathy Envy Embarrassment Euphoria Forgiveness Frustration Guilt Gratitude Grief Hatred Hope Horror Hostility Homesickness Hysteria Loneliness Love Paranoia Pity Pleasure Pride Rage Regret Remorse Shame Suffering Surprise Sympathy Emotion is a biological arousal produced in response to a stimulus. An emotion is a "complex reaction pattern, involving experiential, behavioral, and physiological elements, by which the individual attempts to deal with a personally significant matter of event." It arises without conscious effort and is either positive or negative in its
valence . Other closely related terms are: Affect , a synonym for emotion. Affect display , external display of emotion. Disposition , referring to a durable differentiating characteristic of a person, a tendency to react to situations with a certain emotion. Feeling , which usually refers to the
subjective ,
phenomenological
aspect of emotion. Mood , which refers to an emotional state of duration intermediate between an emotion and a disposition. Etymology Emotion is derived from French émotion, from émouvoir, 'excite' based on Latin emovere, from e- (variant of ex-) 'out' and movere 'move'. "Motivation" is also derived from movere. Definitions of emotion Emotion is very complex, and the term has no single, universally accepted definition. [2]
The study of emotions is part of psychology, sociology, neuroscience, ethics, and metaphysics. According to Sloman, [3]
emotions are cognitive processes. Some authors emphasize the difference between human emotions and the affective behavior of animals. We often talk about brains as information-processing systems, but any account of the brain that lacks an account of emotions, motivations, fears, and hopes is incomplete. Emotions are measurable physical responses to salient stimuli: the increased heartbeat and perspiration that accompany fear, the freezing response of a rat in the presence of a cat, or the extra muscle tension that accompanies anger. Feelings, on the other hand, are the subjective experiences that sometimes accompany these processes: the sensations of happiness, envy, sadness, and so on. Emotions seem to employ largely unconscious machinery—for example, brain areas involved in emotion will respond to angry faces that are briefly presented and then rapidly masked, even when subjects are unaware of having seen the face. Across cultures the expression of basic emotions is remarkably similar, and as Darwin observed, it is also similar across all mammals. There are even strong similarities in physiological responses among humans, reptiles, and birds when showing fear, anger, or parental love. Modern views propose that emotions are brain states that quickly assign
value
or
valence
to outcomes and provide a simple plan of action. Thus, emotion can be viewed as a type of computation, a rapid, automatic summary that initiates appropriate actions. When a bear is galloping toward you, the rising fear directs your brain to do the right things (determining an escape route) instead of all the other things it could be doing (rounding out your grocery list). When it comes to perception, you can spot an object more quickly if it is, say, a spider rather than a roll of tape. In the realm of memory, emotional events are laid down differently by a parallel memory system involving a brain area called the
amygdala . One goal of emotional neuroscience is to understand the nature of the many disorders of emotion, depression being the most common and costly. Impulsive aggression and violence are also thought to be consequences of faulty emotion regulation. Theoretical Traditions in Psychological Emotion Research Several theoretical traditions in emotion research have been offered. These traditions are not mutually exclusive and many researchers incorporate multiple perspectives in their work. Somatic theories William James
in the late 19th century believed that emotional experience is largely due to the experience of bodily changes. These changes might be visceral, postural, or facially expressive. The most basic of these somatic theories is the
James-Lange theory . This theory and its derivates state that a changed situation leads to a changed bodily state. It is this bodily state which in turn gives rise to an emotion. Hence the emotion fear upon encountering a bear in the woods would follow from: Spot a bear -> Heart begins beating faster; adrenalin is being produced -> The emotion fear arises This approach underlies experiment where through manipulating the bodily state, a desired emotion is induced (e.g. in
laughter therapy ). The
Cannon-Bard theory Walter Cannon
provided empirical evidence against the dominance of the James-Lange theory of the physiological aspects emotions in the second edition of Bodily Changes in Pain, Hunger, Fear and Rage. Cannon and Bard came up with a different account of the relations between emotions and behavior; where a certain situation leads to an emotion; which in turn activates a typical behavior. Here the emotion fear upon encountering a bear in the woods would result in: Spot a bear -> The emotion fear arises -> Run away Cognitive theories Research in social psychology interprets emotions as a combination of two elements; physiological arousal and cognitive interpretation. The earliest account of such a theory is the
Singer-Schachter theory
that is based on experiments that varied arousal introducing chemical (adrenaline) and put the participants in different situations. The combination of the appraisal of the situation (cognitive) and whether participants received adrenaline or a placebo together determined the response. In the example of the bear this would lead to: Spot a bear -> Adrenalin is released, heart starts beating faster -> The sight of a bear is interpreted as being dangerous for the health (note this needs not necessarily be a conscious appraisal) -> The emotion fear arises. Several other theories have similar ideas, for example, the framework proposed by
Nico Frijda
where such appraisal leads to action tendencies is related to this idea. In all these theories, the different emotions cause a detectable physical response in the body. These responses are often perceived as sensation in the body; for example: Fear is felt as a heightened heartbeat, increased “flinch” response, and increased
muscle tension . Anger, based on sensation, seems indistinguishable from fear. Happiness is often felt as an expansive or swelling feeling in the chest and the sensation of lightness or buoyancy, as if standing underwater. Sadness is often experienced as a feeling of tightness in the throat and eyes, and relaxation in the arms and legs. Shame can be felt as heat in the upper chest and face. Desire can be accompanied by a dry throat, heavy breathing, and increased heart rate. The evolutionary perspective A fourth theoretical tradition has been gaining influence once more (see: Cornelius, 1996). This fourth, evolutionary tradition started in the late 19th century with
Charles Darwin 's publication of a book on the expression of emotions in man and animals. [4]
Darwin's original thesis was that emotions evolved via natural selection for reasons of warning other creatures about your intentions (e.g. a cat with a high back is angry and will strike you unless you back off). Darwin argued that for mankind emotions were no longer functional but are
epiphenomena
of functional associated habits. Such an evolutionary origin would predict emotions to be cross-culturally universal. Confirmation of this biological origin was provided by
Paul Ekman 's seminal research on facial expressions in humans. Other research in this area focuses on physical displays of emotion including body language of animals and facial expressions in humans. The increased potential in
neuroimaging
has allowed investigation of this idea focusing on the working brain itself. Important neurological advances where made from this perspectives in the 1990s by, for example,
Joseph LeDoux
and
Antonio Damasio . Primary and secondary emotion Primary emotions (i.e., innate emotions, such as fear) "depend on limbic system circuitry," with the
amygdala
and
anterior cingulate gyrus
being "key players". Smell carries directly to limbic areas of the mammalian brain via nerves running from the olfactory bulbs to the
septum , amygdala, and
hippocampus . In the acquatic brain, olfaction was critical for detecting food, foes, and mates from a distance in murky waters. An emotional feeling, like an aroma, has a volatile or "thin-skinned" quality because sensory cells lie on the exposed exterior of the olfactory epithelium (i.e., on the bodily surface itself). A sudden scent, like a whiff of smelling salts, may jolt the mind. The force of a mood is reminiscent of a smell's intensity (e.g., soft and gentle, pungent, or overpowering), and similarly permeates and fades as well. The design of emotion cues, in tandem with the forebrain's
olfactory
prehistory, suggests that the sense of smell is the neurological model for our emotions. Secondary emotions (i.e., feelings attached to objects [e.g., to dental drills], events, and situations through learning) require additional input, based largely on
memory , from the prefrontal and
somatosensory
cortices. The stimulus may still be processed directly via the
amygdala
but is now also analyzed in the thought process. Thoughts and emotions are interwoven: every thought, however bland, almost always carries with it some emotional undertone, however subtle. Emotion and Attitude Change Emotion is a common component in
persuasion ,
social influence , and
attitude change . Much of attitude research emphasized the importance of affective or emotion components (Breckler & Wiggins, 1992). Emotion works hand-in-hand with the cognitive process, or the way we think, about an issue or situation. Emotional appeals are commonly found in advertising, health campaigns and political messages. Recent examples include no-smoking health campaigns and political campaign advertising emphasizing the fear of terrorism. Taking into consideration current attitude research, Breckler and Wiggins (1992) define attitudes as “mental and neural representations, organized through experience, exerting a directive or dynamic influence on behavior”. Attitudes and attitude objects are functions of cognitive, affective and conative components. Attitudes are part of the brain’s associative networks, the spider-like structures residing in long term memory (Higgins, 1986) that consist of affective and cognitive nodes linked through associative pathways (Anderson, 1983; Fazio, 1986). These nodes contain affective, cognitive, and behavioral components (Eagly & Chaiken, 1995). Anderson (1983) suggests that the inter-structural composition of an associative network can be altered by the activation of a single node. Thus, by activating an affective or emotion node, attitude change may be possible, though affective and cognitive components tend to be intertwined. In primarily affective networks, it is more difficult to produce cognitive counterarguments in the resistance to persuasion and attitude change (Eagly & Chaiken, 1995). Affective forecasting, otherwise known as intuition or the prediction of emotion, also impacts attitude change. Research suggests that predicting emotions is an important component of decision making, in addition to the cognitive processes (Loewenstein, 2007). How we feel about an outcome may override purely cognitive rationales. In terms of research methodology, the challenge for researchers is measuring emotion and subsequent impacts on attitude. Since we cannot see into the brain, various models and measurement tools have been constructed to obtain emotion and attitude information. Measures may include the use of physiological cues like facial expressions, vocal changes, and other body rate measures (Breckler & Wiggins, 1992). For instance, fear is associated with raised eyebrows, increased heart rate and increase body tension (Dillard, 1994). Other methods include concept or network mapping, and using primes or word cues (Shavelson & Stanton, 1975). Processing Models Some research on emotion and attitude change focuses on the way people process messages. Many dual process models are used to explain the affective (emotion) and cognitive processing and interpretations of messages. These include the
elaboration likelihood model , the
heuristic-systematic model , and the
extended parallel process model . In the Elaboration Likelihood Model, or ELM, (Petty and Cacioppo, 1986), cognitive processing is the central route and affective/emotion processing is often associated with the peripheral route. The central route pertains to an elaborate cognitive processing of information while the peripheral route relies on cues or feelings. The ELM suggests that true attitude change only happens through the central processing route that incorporates both cognitive and affective components as opposed to the more heuristics-based peripheral route. This suggests that motivation through emotion alone will not result in an attitude change. In the Heuristic-Systematic Model, or HSM, (Chaiken, Liberman, & Eagly, 1989) information is either processed in a high-involvement and high-effort systematic way, or information is processed through shortcuts known as heuristics. Emotions, feelings and gut-feeling reactions are often used as shortcuts. The Extended Parallel Process Model, or EPPM, includes both thinking and feeling in conjunction with threat and fear appeals (Witte, 1992). EPPM suggests that persuasive fear appeals work best when people have high involvement and high efficacy. In other words, fear appeals are most effective when an individual cares about the issue or situation, and that individual possesses and perceives that they possess the agency to deal with that issue or situation. Components of Emotion Appeals Any discrete emotion can be used in a persuasive appeal; this may include jealously, disgust, indignation, fear, and anger. Fear is one of the most studied emotional appeals in communication and social influence research. Dillard (1994) suggests that “fear appeals have been thought of as messages that attempt to achieve opinion change by establishing the negative consequences of failing to agree with the advocated position” (p. 295). The EPPM (above) looks at the effectiveness of using fear and threat to change attitudes. Important consequences of fear appeals and other emotion appeals include the possibility of reactance (Brehm & Brehm, 1981) which may lead to either message rejections or source rejection and the absence of attitude change. As the EPPM suggests, there is an optimal emotion level in motivating attitude change. If there is not enough motivation, an attitude will not change; if the emotional appeal is overdone, the motivation can be paralyzed thereby preventing attitude change. Emotions perceived as negative or containing threat are often studied more than perceived positive emotions like humor. Though the inner-workings of humor are not agreed upon, humor appeals may work by creating incongruities in the mind (Maase, Fink & Kaplowitz, 1984). Recent research has looked at the impact of humor on the processing of political messages (Nabi, Moyer-Guse, & Byrne, 2007). While evidence is inconclusive, there appears to be potential for targeted attitude change is receivers with low political message involvement. Important factors that influence the impact emotion appeals include self efficacy, attitude accessibility, issue involvement, and message/source features. Self efficacy is a perception of one’s own human agency; in other words, it is the perception of our own ability to deal with a situation (Bandura, 1992). It is an important variable in emotion appeal messages because it dictates a person’s ability to deal with both the emotion and the situation. For example, if a person is not self-efficacious about their ability to impact the global environment, they are not likely to change their attitude or behavior about global warming. Dillard (1994) suggests that message features such as source non-verbal communication, message content, and receiver differences can impact the emotion impact of fear appeals. The characteristics of a message are important because one message can elicit different levels of emotion for different people. Thus, in terms of emotion appeals messages, one size does not fit all. Attitude accessibility refers to the activation of an attitude from memory (Fazio, 1986); in other words, how readily available is an attitude about an object, issue, or situation. Issue involvement (Zaichkowsky, 1985) is the relevance and salience of an issue or situation to an individual. Issue involvement has been correlated with both attitude access and attitude strength. Past studies conclude accessible attitudes are more resistant to change (Fazio & Williams, 1986). Neurobiological theories of emotion Based on discoveries made through neural mapping of the
limbic system , the
neurobiological
explanation of human emotion is that emotion is a pleasant or unpleasant mental state organized in the limbic system of the
mammalian brain . Defined as such, these emotional states are specific manifestations of non-verbally expressed feelings of agreement, amusement, anger, certainty, control, disagreement, disgust, disliking, embarrassment, fear, guilt, happiness, hate, interest, liking, love, sadness, shame, surprise, and uncertainty. If distinguished from reactive responses of
reptiles , emotions would then be mammalian elaborations of general
vertebrate
arousal patterns, in which neurochemicals (e.g.,
dopamine ,
noradrenalin , and
serotonin ) step-up or step-down the brain's activity level, as visible in body movements, gestures, and postures. In
mammals ,
primates , and human beings, feelings are displayed as emotion cues. For example, the human emotion of
love
is proposed to have evolved from paleocircuits of the mammalian brain (specifically, modules of the
cingulated gyrus ) designed for the care, feeding, and grooming of offspring. Paleocircuits are neural platforms for bodily expression configured millions of years before the advent of
cortical
circuits
for speech. They consist of pre-configured pathways or networks of
nerve cells
in the
forebrain ,
brain stem
and
spinal cord . They evolved prior to the earliest mammalian ancestors, as far back as the
jawless fishes , to control motor function. Presumably, before the mammalian brain, life in the non-verbal world was automatic, preconscious, and predictable. The motor centers of
reptiles
react to sensory cues of vision, sound, touch, chemical, gravity, and motion with pre-set body movements and programmed postures. With the arrival of night-active
mammals , circa 180 million years ago, smell replaced vision as the dominant sense, and a different way of responding arose from the
olfactory
sense, which is proposed to have developed into
mammalian
emotion and emotional memory. In the
Jurassic Period , the mammalian brain invested heavily in
olfaction
to succeed at night as reptiles slept — one explanation for why olfactory lobes in mammalian brains are proportionally larger than in the reptiles. These odor pathways gradually formed the neural blueprint for what was later to become our limbic brain. Brain areas related to emotion Emotions are thought to be related to activity in brain areas that direct our attention, motivate our behavior, and determine the significance of what is going on around us. Pioneering work by
Broca
(1878),
Papez
(1937), and
MacLean
(1952) suggested that emotion is related to a group of structures in the center of the brain called the
limbic system , which includes the
hypothalamus ,
cingulate cortex ,
hippocampi , and other structures. More recent research has shown that some of these
limbic structures
are not as directly related to emotion as others are, while some non-limbic structures have been found to be of greater emotional relevance. The following brain structures are currently thought to be most involved in emotion: Amygdala
— The amygdalae are two small, round structures located
anterior
to the
hippocampi
near the
temporal
poles. The amygdalae are involved in detecting and learning what parts of our surroundings are important and have emotional significance. They are critical for the production of emotion, and may be particularly so for negative emotions, especially fear. Prefrontal cortex
— The term prefrontal cortex refers to the very front of the brain, behind the forehead and above the eyes. It appears to play a critical role in the regulation of emotion and behavior by anticipating the consequences of our actions. The prefrontal cortex may play an important role in delayed gratification by maintaining emotions over time and organizing behavior toward specific goals. Anterior cingulate
— The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is located in the middle of the brain, just behind the prefrontal cortex. The ACC is thought to play a central role in attention, and may be particularly important with regard to conscious, subjective emotional awareness. This region of the brain may also play an important role in the initiation of motivated behavior. Ventral
striatum
— The ventral striatum is a group of subcortical structures thought to play an important role in emotion and behavior. One part of the ventral striatum called the
nucleus accumbens
is thought to be involved in the experience of goal-directed positive emotion. Individuals with addictions experience increased activity in this area when they encounter the object of their
addiction . Insula
— The insular cortex is thought to play a critical role in the bodily experience of emotion, as it is connected to other brain structures that regulate the body’s autonomic functions (heart rate, breathing, digestion, etc.). This region also processes taste information and is thought to play an important role in experiencing the emotion of disgust. Positive and negative perception Like aromas, emotions are experienced as positive or negative, pleasant or unpleasant; emotions do not seem to be neutral. Like odors, feelings come and go, but are logical, and clearly show upon our face in mood signs. It is likely that many emotions evolved from aroma paleocircuits a. in subcortical nuclei (e.g., the paleocortex of the amygdala), and b. in layers of nerve cells within the forebrain's outer covering of
neocortex . The latter's stratified architecture resembles that of the olfactory bulb, which is organized in layers as well. Sociology of Emotions Systematic observations of group interaction found that a substantial portion of group activity is devoted to the socio-emotional issues of expressing affect and dealing with tension. [5]
Simultaneously, field studies of social attraction in groups revealed that feelings of individuals about each other collate into social networks,
[6]
a discovery that still is being explored in the field of
social network
analysis. Ethnomethodology
revealed emotional commitments to everyday norms through purposeful breaching of the norms. For example, students acting as boarders in their own homes reported others' astonishment, bewilderment, shock, anxiety, embarrassment, and anger; family members accused the students of being mean, inconsiderate, selfish, nasty, or impolite. Actors who breach a norm themselves feel waves of emotion, including apprehension, panic, and despair. [7]
However, habitual rule breaking leads to declining stress, and may eventually end in enjoyment. T. David Kemper [8]
proposed that people in social interaction have positions on two relational dimensions: status and power. Emotions emerge as interpersonal events change or maintain individuals' status and power. For example, affirming someone else's exalted status produces love-related emotions. Increases or decreases in one's own and other's status or power generate specific emotions whose quality depends on the patterns of change. Sociologist
Randall Collins
has stated that emotional energy is the main motivating force in social life, for love and hatred, investing, working or consuming, rendering cult or waging war. [9]
Emotional energy ranges from the highest heights of enthusiasm, self-confidence and initiative to the deepest depths of apathy, depression and retreat. Emotional energy comes from variously successful or failed chains of interaction rituals, that is, patterned social encounters –from conversation or sexual flirtation through
Christmas
family dinners or office work to mass demonstrations, organizations or revolutions. In the latter, the coupling of participants' behavior synchronizes their
nervous systems
to the point of generating a
collective effervescence , one observable in their mutual focus and emotional entraining, as well as in their loading of emotional and symbolic meaning to entities which subsequently become emblems of the ritual and of the membership group endorsing, preserving, promoting and defending them. Thus social life would be most importantly about generating and distributing emotional energy. Thomas J. Scheff [10]
established that many cases of social conflict are based on a destructive and often escalating, but stoppable and reversible shame-rage cycle: when someone results or feels shamed by another, their social bond comes under stress. This can be cooperatively acknowledged, talked about and – most effectively when possible - laughed at so their social bond may be restored. Yet, when shame is not acknowledged, but instead negated and repressed, it becomes rage, and rage may drive to aggressive and shaming actions that feed-back negatively on this self-destructive situation. The social management of emotions might be the fundamental dynamics of social cooperation and conflict around resources, complexity, conflict and moral life. It is well-established sociological fact that expression and feeling of the emotion of anger, for example, is strongly discouraged (repressed) in girls and women in many cultures, while fear is discouraged in boys and men. Some cultures and sub-cultures encourage or discourage happiness, sadness, jealousy, excitedness, and many other emotions. The free expression of the emotion of disgust is considered socially unacceptable in many countries. Arlie Hochschild [11]
proposed that individuals apply cultural and ideological standards to judge the suitability of emotions occurring during a social interaction, and then manage their feelings to produce acceptable displays. Hochschild showed that jobs often require such
emotional labor . Her classic study of emotional labor among flight attendants found that an industry speed-up, reducing contact between flight attendants and passengers, made it impossible for flight attendants to deliver authentic emotional labor, so they ended up surface-acting superficial smiles. Peggy Thoits [12]
divided emotion management techniques into implementation of new events and reinterpretation of past events. Thoits noted that emotions also can be managed with drugs, by performing faux gestures and facial expressions, or by cognitive reclassifications of one's feelings. Affect Control Theory
which was originated by David R. Heise proposes that social actions are designed by their agents to create impressions that befit sentiments reigning in a situation. Emotions are transient personal states depending on the current impression of the emoting person, and on the comparison of that impression with the sentiment attached to the person's identity. Classification of emotions There has been considerable debate whether emotions should be classified as a position in a continuum (e.g. the circumplex model by Russell, or many of the
valence
approaches in social psychology) or whether emotions are best identified as distinct (basic) states. Classification by basic emotions One of the most influential classification approaches in the study of emotion is
Robert Plutchik ’s classification into eight primary emotions. The emotions that
Plutchik
lists as primary are: Anger Fear Sadness Joy Disgust Curiosity / Interest Surprise Acceptance Similar to the way
primary colors
combine, primary emotions are believed to blend together to form the full spectrum of human emotional experience.
Plutchik
reasons that these eight are primary on evolutionary grounds, by relating each to behavior with survival value. For example: fear motivates flight from danger, anger motivates fighting for survival. They are considered to be part of our biological heritage and built into human nature. Paul Ekman
devised a similar list of basic emotions from cross-cultural research on the
Fore tribesmen
of
Papua New Guinea . He found that even members of an isolated, stone age culture could reliably identify the expressions of emotion in photographs of people from cultures with which the
Fore
were not yet familiar, and concluded that the facial expression of some basic emotions is innate. The following is
Ekman ’s list of basic emotions: Anger Reverent Sadness Happiness Disgust Ekman
holds that this lends further support to the view that at least some emotions are primary, innate, and universal in all human beings. [13] Lazarus (1991) similarly offers taxonomy of 'Core Relational Themes' for various emotions; these help define both function and eliciting conditions. They include a demeaning offense against me and mine for anger; facing an immediate, concrete, and overwhelming physical danger for fear; having experienced an irrevocable loss for sadness; taking in or being too close to an indigestible object or idea (metaphorically speaking) for disgust; making reasonable progress toward the realization of a goal for happiness. Emotions and Psychotherapy Depending on the particular school's general emphasis either on cognitive component of emotion, physical energy discharging, or on symbolic movement and facial expression components of emotion, different schools of
psychotherapy
approach human emotions differently. While, for example, the school of
Re-evaluation Counseling
propose that distressing emotions are to be relieved by “discharging” them - hence crying, laughing, sweating, shaking, and trembling. [14]
Other more cognitively oriented schools approach them via their cognitive components, or via symbolic movement and facial expression components (like in contemporary
Gestalt therapy
[15] ). Notes ^
vandenBos, Gary B. (2006). APA Dictionary of Psychology. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association ^
Emotional Competency discussion of emotion ^
Darwin, Charles (1872). The Expression of Emotions in Man and Animals. Note: This book was originally published in 1872, but has been reprinted many times thereafter by different publishers
Cornelius, R. (1996). The science of emotion. New Jersey: Prentice Hall. Eagly, A., & Chaiken, S. (1995). Attitude strength, attitude structure and resistance to change. In R. Petty and J. Kosnik (Eds.), Attitude Strength. (pp. 413-432). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum. Ekman P. (1999). " Basic Emotions ". In: T. Dalgleish and M. Power (Eds.). Handbook of Cognition and Emotion. John Wiley & Sons Ltd, Sussex, UK:. Fazio, R. (1986). How do attitudes guide behavior? In R. H. Sorrentino & E.T. Higgins. (Eds.), The handbook of motivation and cognition: Foundation of social behavior. (pp. 204-243). New York: Guilford. Fazio, R., & Williams, C. (1986). Attitude accessibility as a moderator of attitude-perception and attitude-behavior relation: An investigation of the 1984 presidential election. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 51, 505-514. Fellous, J.M., Armony, J.L., & LeDoux, J.E. (2002). "Emotional Circuits and Computational Neuroscience" in 'The handbook of brain theory and neural networks' Second Edition. M.A. Arbib (editor), The MIT Press.
[2] Higgins, E. (1996). Knowledge activation: Accessiblity, applicability, and salience. In E. T. Higgins, & A. W. Kruganski (Eds.), Social Psychology, Handbook of basic principles (pp. 133-168). New York:Guilford Press. Lazarus, R. (1991). "Emotion and adaptation". New York: Oxford University Press. LeDoux, J.E. (1986). The neurobiology of emotion. Chap. 15 in J E. LeDoux & W. Hirst (Eds.) Mind and Brain: dialogues in cognitive neuroscience. New York: Cambridge. Loewenstein, G. (2007). Affect regulation and affective forecasting. In Gross, J. J. (Ed.) Handbook of Emotion Regulation (pp. 180-203). New York: Guilford.
Plutchik, R. (1980). A general psychoevolutionary theory of emotion. In R. Plutchik & H. Kellerman (Eds.), Emotion: Theory, research, and experience: Vol. 1. Theories of emotion (pp. 3–33). New York: Academic.
Posted by
Dr. Raman
at
6:00 AM
No comments:
Labels:
Mind
LIFE
LIFE Life and man may seem mysterious and a difficult problem to solve when studied purely from a biological, chemical, or physical standpoint; but they are not only intensely interesting but also understandable when studied from the aspect of being an intelligent and perfect manifestation of the creative activity of the infinite creative principle of the universe or God.
The average person, even an educated one knows very little about himself and his relation to nature and to the
laws
which govern his
body
in health and in sickness,
hence
he
becomes frightened and confused when ill and does not know what to do. In his search for advice and relief he naturally turns to those possessing special education and training in the treatment and care of the sick. Due to the fact that no two people are exactly alike in biochemical constitutions, in temperament, or in physical and mental development and thinking, it is natural that each person turns to the systems of medicine or treatment he thinks best suited to his individual need. To meet this demand various schools of medicine and systems of physical
and metaphysical treatment have grown up amongst us; and so we have medicinal, physical and metaphysical schools and systems of treatment. All of these may be useful within their own sphere of activity, and all have merits and some cures to their credit but so many failures; hence none has the right to dominate the entire field of healing and say; "I, alone am right, theorist of you are all wrong and have no right to treat and care for sick people." The entire universe is one great immense unit originating from one source that of primary energy of the "primordial substance", dominated by a constructive and benevolent creative principle and governed by harmonious immutable laws. There is only one source, one power, one purpose and one unit: but this immense unit is split up into innumerable smaller compact and independent units: all bound together by the same principles, that of manifesting the supreme, creative activity of the infinite creative principle of the universe. Every activity and phenomenon on earth is governed by the same principles and laws, including that of man and life. All our sciences, whether physical, medical, mental or psychological, must be governed by these universal principles, otherwise they will be of no benefit to man and serve no useful purpose. Physical matter is basically primary energy in a state of condensation or a gradual consolidation, in which the vibratory activity has been gradually lowered until the substance becomes condensed and reaches the physical plane of consistency. Primary energy is that infinitely fine vibrating ever-active scintillating primordial substance filling all space, out of which and from which all was made that is made or created. The projection of a creative impulse into primary energy bearing a definite image of the size, shape and consistency of a physical body
will slowly and gradually change the vibratory activity in primary energy until it reaches the
consistency of ether; and by continuing the image projection into the realm of ether the protons and electrons take shape. From these the atoms are formed, the atoms form into molecules, and the molecules into physical compounds and bodies. The explanation is theoretically correct from the standpoint of the creative aspect; but man in his present state of evolution and unfoldment may not be able to produce physical matter by projecting a thought bearing the shape and form of a solid body into primary energy. Matter is apparently stable and fixed, but it is subject to the action of external and internal forces and can be broken up and apparently destroyed. From these elements and remnants new and different shapes, consistencies, compounds and bodies are formed; hence matter is not stable or fixed. There are three states of matter on earth, the mineral or inorganic, the vegetable and the animal planes. These are also called the three kingdoms of matter, the inorganic, the vegetable and the animal kingdoms. The basic plane is the inorganic or the mineral kingdom, a state in which no life activity is present. Matter exists on the inorganic plane in the forms of gases, liquids and solids. The finer forces of energies in nature are basically primary energy set in motion by creative impulses for definite purposes and activities on the various planes of matter; they may vary in nature and quality according to the character of the impulse that set them in motion and the purpose they serve. Some of the finer forces are electrical, chemical and physical forces or energies. These are active forces that change, break up and form new combinations on the inorganic plane of matter. Other known energies or forces active in nature are the life energies or life forces. The life energies or forces are specialized rays of primary energy provided by the Creator for the purpose of creating and maintaining life in physical matter. This earth would be of no purpose were there no life activity on it, hence the great Creator of the world designated some rays of primary energy for this purpose and into these rays he injected the impulse of life or the "Spark of Life"; these rays of primary energy have the power to convert inorganic matter into living organic cells, tissues and structures. We know that manifestation of life on earth, whether in the vegetable or animal or human kingdoms, is not
electrical or chemical or physical or biological
activities alone, but something more and infinitely finer and more
delicate in
its activity, hence we are justified to call these energies the life forces. Electrical, chemical and physical energies can change the forms of physical matter on the inorganic plane. These break up existing combinations and out of the elements form new compounds, formations and bodies. Physical force is a power produced by matter in motion, and the quality and power of the force is governed by the quantity of matter and speed of the motion. Physical energy is a power produced by physical matter and liberated by breaking up or destroying the body or the compound holding it in bondage like dynamite, etc. It may also be generated
within a body or a compound by forcing a stronger energy into the body, or compound in question. Basically all energy is derived from primary energy, but physical energy may change in nature and character, depending upon the nature of the force which liberated the latent energy from the physical compound or the body. For this reason there are many manifestations of energy or power, some benevolent and constructive and some harmful and destructive. Energy is inherent in all physical matter, as all matter is derived from primary energy it is self-evident that all matter contains latent energy. The nature and consistency of physical energy is similar to that of primary energy. It is an infinity fine, vibrating and ever-moving force. Its movements are expressed in the so-called vibratory or Brownian movements. Organic matter is a state in which the chemical combination of the inorganic elements have been broken up, changed and transmuted into living and growing organic cells, tissues and structures. The vegetable life force or life energy changes or transmutes inorganic matter into organic living vegetable cells and tissues. Vegetable life energy is only one ray of the great universal life energy. It can only transmute inorganic chemical elements into vegetable matter but cannot create animal or human bodies. The vegetable life energy, assisted by the heat of the sun rays, converts the gases in the air and the minerals in the earth into
vegetable cells, tissues and structures. This process can be called a transmuting function as it takes thee inorganic elements and out of these makes beautiful flowers, plants, fruits and all the great variety of organic life found in the vegetable kingdom. The life energy assisted by the heat of the sun rays, or even infra-red heat, converts the carbon gas in the air into sugars, starches and other organic elements. The hydrogen gas combines with oxygen gas forming water, which is used as a vehicle for carrying on the function of life in the plant cells, but water does not actually become a part of the cells. The oxygen gas operates in vegetable life mostly as a purifier or destroyer of dead organic matter and toxins, but is not built into the cell structure of the plant. The main function of oxygen in nature is to keep living organic bodies clean and free from dead organic matter and poisons, hence it plays a very important part in the living kingdom of matter, both in the vegetable and in the animal. The nitrogen gas from which hard cellular tissues are formed has little affinity for other gases in the air, hence before it can be built into vegetable tissues it first unites with ammonia and as ammonia compounds absorbed into the earth. From the earth the plant life draws it up and builds it into its dense cells and structures. The minerals in the earth are absorbed in a similar manner by the growing plant where they are broken up and transmuted into living cells and tissues. Sixteen inorganic elements are used into construction of the vegetable kingdom, the four gases of the air and the twelve minerals from the earth. The gases are carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen. The minerals are calcium, phosphorus, potassium, sulphur, chlorine, sodium, magnesia, iron, iodine, fluorine, silicon and manganese. To these some recent biochemists have added one or two more minerals but the above twelve are the main ones.
The colloidal state of matter implies that inorganic or mineral matter has been broken up and crushed until it is reduced to a condition of microscopical size. Colloidal matter is inorganic, although it has been broken up and reduced to such a fine substance that it is very close to the organic line, but there is no life activity in it, hence it is inorganic. The stratum of ether is basically electro magnetic. In fact all electric energy originates in this field; and when two inorganic bodies of the opposite pole of magnetic energy meet, a new quality of electrical energy is generated which is called electro magnetic force. This force has the power to attract and impregnate inorganic metallic bodies with electro magnetic energy and may exert a great force on other metallic bodies if the magnets are of sufficient size. Electro-magnetic force relation has no to the life energy, except that the vegetable life energy in its process of creating and maintaining life in physical matter may make use of electro magnetic energy and other physical energies and forces in its operation of building and maintaining life in matter. Oxygen and bacteria break down dead organic matter and return it to its primary or inorganic state; Oxygen burns up all organic matter containing carbon and during pressure of beat will burn up or destroy other dead organic matter and even living bodies. Bacteria eats up or consume all forms of dead organic matters and bodies where ever it may be found, either in the earth, on the earth, in the air, in or on the living body. It is the function of bacteria to break down or convert dead useless substances and bodies into their primary inorganic gases and other elements. HEALTH Health is a state of being in which every cell, every tissue, every organ and part of the body performs its function normally, harmoniously and so smoothly that the consciousness is not aware of organs and parts; thoughts and ideas flow freely and the reasoning is clear and logical: the emotions react normally and rationally to the environment and to life as a whole; and the entire being vibrates vitality, harmony and charm. Vitality is a state of being in which the life force permeates every cell, every tissue and organ of the body freely and uninterruptedly until the entire being is charged with life power and radiates strength, poise and health. Human magnetism is harmonious and vital emanation from the body, the product of a harmonious undisturbed activity of the life force in the healthy body. It is stored up mainly in the nerve plexuses of the sympathetic nervous system and the endocrine glands of the body. From these centers it radiates to every cell and every part of the being, imparting energy and vitality to the body. A highly magnetic person is radiant with life, energy and health and has the power to attract and to please. The human being is basically healthy, providing he was born of parents free from marked traces of chronic miasms. The human being was designed and constructed in such a perfect and wonderful manner that he can remain well and healthy without interruption by ill health or disease during a long and active life. Men become ill and diseased because so far the average person, even an educated one, knows very little about himself, the construction and needs of the body and the laws which govern a normal healthy life on earth. Because of this ignorance he violates practically every law of normal healthful living. He knows very little about the food he eats and the relation it has to the welfare and health of the body; he dissipates in eating, drinking and smoking, and his emotional adjustment to environment and problems of a complex civilization are usually wrong and cause disturbances of the normal functioning of the body. For this ignorance and violation of laws he pays a heavy price in ill health, pain, suffering, misery and early death.
Any deviation from the foregoing standard of health is ill health or health out of balance. Ill health consists primarily in a change or alteration or disturbance of the normal functional activity of an organ or organs or part of the body. The normal functions may be increased, decreased or disrupted entirely, depending on the nature of the cause or the irritant. This condition is usually expressed in signs and symptoms; of those the signs or objective symptoms can bee seen or
detected, while the subjective ones are felt by the patient, and may consist of pain or a sensation of discomfort or dysfunction of an organ or any part of the body. Primary cause of ill health and disease are physical irritants and disturbed emotions. Any physical irritant internal or external, strong enough to interfere with, change, alter, or disrupt the normal functional activity of the body can cause disease. The nature of these irritants is toxins, drug poisons or physical forces. For convenience they may be classified into several groups: 1. Accidental trauma and industrial injuries. 2. Deficiency in food, particularly deficiency in minerals and vitamins, with defective eliminating functions. 3. Toxins and poisons, these include:
A- Autotoxemia, due to deficient oxidation of metabolic by- products
in the blood and the retention of food residues in the large intestines.
B- Parasitic and bacterial toxins generated and retained in the body.
C- Drugs and medicinal irritants, including pain killers, harsh laxatives, alcohol, tobacco, etc. Human emotions can cause ill health and disease by interfering with or disrupting the normal functional activity of the body. Emotions operate in the body through and over the sympathetic or automatic nervous system. Every cell, every tissue every organ and every part of the body is connected with other cells, tissues and organs through a complex nervous system. The sympathetic or automatic system is one branch of this grand system of nerve fibers, cells and plexuses. All thoughts and sensations are transmitted to the consciousness over and through the cerebrospinal system, but emotions conducted to the consciousness over the sympathetic nervous system, and the nature of the emotion determines the effect it has on the body, either constructive or destructive. Emotions such as love, faith, happiness, and good will are constructive and have a beneficial influence upon the harmonious functional activity of every cell, tissue and structure of the body. Emotions such as fear, worry, resentment, criticism, envy, anger, jealousy and hatred are destructive and interfere with the normal functional activity of the body and may cause ill health and disease. The main difference is that ill health or sickness is a condition in which an irritant may cause a derangement of the normal functioning of an organ or apart of the body without any actual changes in the structure of the organ or the part affected. A disease, on the other hand, is a condition in which actual changes take place in the cellular structure of the diseased part of the body, such as cancer, tuberculosis, arthritis, peptic or duodenal ulcer, etc. Hence the main difference is largely a matter of degrees; a person may feel ill and
miserable and yet no disease can be discovered or demonstrated even under very careful physical examination. An acute disease is one that comes on suddenly, runs a certain course and results in either restoration to health or in death. A chronic disease is in reality an uncured acute disease, or a condition in which irritating cause continues actively in the body, not strong enough to produce acute symptoms but it leaves the patient in a state of semi- invalidism. An infectious disease is one in which the cause consists of a toxin or poison, usually bacterial toxins, generated within the body and absorbed into the blood stream. The reaction of the body to the poisons will cause increase in temperature, accelerated pulse and respiration, and many other symptoms depending upon the nature of the disease and the part of the body affected. Medicine is a substance supposed to contain an element or elements having a definite relation to the symptoms of a disease, either that of suppressing the symptoms or relieving or "curing" them. The body recognizes the nature of the medicine taken by a reflex nerve action. Unless the medicine acts chemically its nature is not recognized by a reflex action of the various systems. The sensory nerve endings within the mouth, stomach and intestines react to the irritation of the substance taken and send a message over sensory nerves to nerve cells in the spine. These centers will recognize the nature of the medicine by the degree of its irritation and return a message over motor nerves to the organs and parts affected, and these will react to the medicine according to the degree of irritation sustained by the nerve centers. Food and neutral drinks cause a slight stimulation of the digestive glands in the alimentary tract which may bring on a feeling of satisfaction and general comfort but do not cause a marked reflex action on the part of the organs. Drugs and medicines act upon the body either chemically, psychologically or dynamically. Drugs and medicines act chemically when they cause chemical changes with in the cavities or tubes of the body, or in the blood stream. This action may consist of changing the chemical content of the stomach or any other cavity from acid to alkaline or vice versa or it may act antiseptically on bacteria in the tubes of the body or in the blood stream. If the drug is very strong and irritating it may cause destruction of tissue and even death. They act physiologically by causing a reflex nerve action within the body. In reality the drug does not act on the body but the body reacts to the drug taken. If the drug is only mildly irritating or so-called stimulating to the sensory nerve endings with in the stomach and intestines, the reaction will cause an increased functional activity of the organs or parts affected. This reaction is illustrated by that class of medicines called laxatives and tonics. On the other hand, if the irritation is severe enough to partly inhabit the sensation to reach the nerve cells in the spine or the consciousness, the functional activity to the organ or parts affected will be decreased. Such drugs are usually called sedatives and taken to reduce overactive organs or to relieve pain, general nervousness, and to induce sleep. If the irritation to the sensory nerves is severe enough to prohibit all sensation to reach the consciousness, all conscious functional activity may be suspended. This class of drugs is called narcotics and anesthetics, and is employed when all conscious sensation and activity need to be suspended.
Medicines act dynamically on the diseased energy emanating from a diseased process with in the body; they act only when the potential drug energy has been liberated from its bonds and by a process of mechanical operations forced into an inert-media or vehicle.
Posted by
Dr. Raman
at
5:44 AM
No comments:
Labels:
Homoeopathy
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2009
(3)
▼
February
(3)
Clinically verified Sub-rubrics related to Emotion...
Emotions
LIFE
About Me
Dr. Raman
View my complete profile